Applied Communication (APC) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Applied Communication (APC)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Applied Communication (APC)
Applied Communication (APC)
APC 201.  Introduction to Health and Risk Communication.  (3)
Basic theories and approaches to studying environmental health and risk communication. Possible topics include doctor/patient communication, organizational communication in health contexts, health communication campaigns, and organizational responses to health and scientific crises.
APC 311.  Science and Medicine in Public Communication.  (3)
Considers lay and public understandings of medical and scientific research including the importance of framing and definition in mainstream discourse and its effects on scientific research and public policy and health education programs.Prerequisite: sophomore standing.
APC 312.  Computer-mediated Communication and Social Media.  (3)
The purpose of this class is to teach you theories and skills related to successful communication in a society in which communication is often facilitated by new technologies.Prerequisite: minimum sophomore standing.
APC 332.  Argumentation and Debate.  (3)
Study of the theory and practice of constructing, analyzing, and evaluating arguments. Consideration given to various debate formats as models of argumentation.
APC 336.  Advanced Interpersonal Communication.  (3)
In-depth examination of interpersonal communication theories and research. Particular emphasis placed on the role of communication through the life cycle of relationships, from their initiation and maintenance to their deterioration or escalation.Prerequisite: STC 136 or permission of instructor.
APC 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
APC 341.  Methods of Rhetorical Criticism.  (3)
Examination of various methods related to the description, analysis, and interpretation of communicative acts. Rhetorical approaches treated include neo-Aristotelian, dramatistic, fantasy theme, generic, and narrative methods.
APC 363.  Advanced Methods in Applied Communication.  (3)
Focuses on qualitative and interpretive methods of communication research. Possible topics include interviewing, ethnography, case studies, action research, textual and media criticism, interpretivist epistemology, and research ethics.Prerequisite: ENG 111 or equivalent.
APC 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
APC 401.  Applied Communication Capstone.  (3) (MPC)
This course brings together students' study of health communication by applying their understanding of health communication to produce an original product/outcome within the context of a course theme. This product/outcome can include a health campaign, analysis of health messages, a collaborative project, or other product/outcome deemed appropriate by the instructor and one situated within the course theme (determined by instructor).Prerequisites: APC 363, STC 262 and senior standing.
APC 428.  Communication in Conflict Management.  (3)
Examination of the role of communication in the management of conflict in various contexts. Stresses relevant theories and research as a basis for analyzing and understanding diverse types of conflict.
APC 438.  Political Communication.  (3)
Study of communication methods used in political campaigns. Special consideration of such aspects of political communication as analyzing audiences, structuring messages, developing stock speeches, political debating, selecting media, and interpersonal communication in political campaigns.
APC 450.  Topics in Applied Communication.  (3; maximum 9)
Study or research of issues and problems associated with communication under the guidance of a faculty member of the department.Prerequisite: major status or permission of instructor.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel