Applied Social Research (ASO) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Applied Social Research (ASO)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Applied Social Research (ASO)
Applied Social Research (ASO)
ASO 201.  Introduction to Applied Social Research.  (3) (MPF)
Social scientists (anthropologists, geographers, psychologists, sociologists, etc.) conduct empirical research in order to explain our social world. ASO 201 is the first course in a sequence of three foundational courses (ASO 201, ASO 301, ASO 401) that will provide students with the knowledge and skills they need to design, conduct, and interpret applied social research. In ASO 201, students gain an overview of the multiple theoretical approaches guiding social research. Students will examine approaches from multiple disciplines within the social sciences to determine how research is conducted within these fields to explore, understand, and implement practical solutions to important social issues. IIC, IIIB, IC.
ASO 211.  Career Development in Psychology & Related Social Sciences.  (3)
What can you do with a degree in Psychological Science, Psychology, or a related Social Science major? Whether you plan to enter directly into the workforce after college or continue in graduate school in psychological science or a related field, this course will help you to explore careers, design a vocational plan, set goals, and develop strategies to make you ready for your professional life after college. Helping you develop professional competencies, this course will look at three key areas for you to focus upon while you are an undergraduate student: the ATTITUDE you need to have toward your studies, the KNOWLEDGE you need to be competitive, and the SKILLS you should attain to be marketable.Cross-listed with PSS 211.
ASO 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ASO 301.  Applied Social Research Methods.  (4)
Social scientists (anthropologists, geographers, psychologists, sociologists, etc.) conduct empirical research in order to explain our social world. ASO 301 is the second in a sequence of three foundational courses (ASO 201, ASO 301, and ASO 401) designed to provide students the knowledge and skills they need to design, conduct, and interpret applied social science research. In ASR 201, students learned the theoretical approaches guiding social research. In ASO 301, students are introduced to the processes and skills required to conceive, design, conduct, analyze, interpret, visualize, and report results from social science research. Students will learn how to formulate research questions, identify study variables, employ theories to explain the relationship between variables, and to collect, analyze, and report data using both qualitative and quantitative research methods.
ASO 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
ASO 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ASO 401.  Applied Social Research Capstone.  (3) (MPC)
The final capstone course in a sequence of three foundational courses (ASO 201, ASO 301, and ASO 401) designed to provide students the knowledge and skills necessary to design, conduct, and interpret applied social science research. In ASO 401, students will demonstrate their integrated knowledge and professional growth by completing an individualized research project that draws from an array of applied social research methods. After successfully completing the capstone course, students will understand what is expected of an applied social research scientist and will have the skills to confidently design and implement appropriate research methods essential for graduate studies or future employment.Prerequisite: ASO 301.
ASO 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel