Integrative Studies (BIS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Integrative Studies (BIS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Integrative Studies (BIS)
Integrative Studies (BIS)
BIS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BIS 201.  Introduction to Integrative Studies.  (3)
Introduces integrative learning processes needed to build and focus learning throughout the multidisciplinary BIS program. Students explore their own epistemologies while practicing strategies to meaningfully integrate various disciplines and fields of study, culminating in individualized Statements of Educational Objectives for their course of studies in the degree program.
BIS 210.  Special Topics in Integrative Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
Special Topics in Integrative Studies offers a rotating series of topics to meet the changing needs and interest of students and faculty. May be taken for credit more than once with different content and permission of instructor.
BIS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BIS 301.  Integrative Studies Seminar II.  (3)
Second required seminar in Bachelor of Integrative Studies program, shaped around selected theme. Integrates concepts, perspectives, and methodologies of student Concentrations. Emphasizes critique, analysis, and synthesis of knowledge and ways of knowing and of cross-disciplinary connections. Service learning project extends focus from student self to engaged learner.Prerequisite: a grade of C- or better in BIS 201.
BIS 305.  Integrative Writing in Global Contexts.  (3)
Through this advanced composition course, students develop and exercise means to integrate multiple perspectives and disciplinary discourses through writing for global audiences. Readings focused on issues in diversity and intercultural communication, assignments involving various genres and disciplinary methodologies, and projects that analyze and integrate multiple forms of writing help students draw on their liberal learning to address real-world challenges in regard to diverse others and the interconnected global community. IC, ADVW.Cross-listed with EGS 305.
BIS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
BIS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BIS 401.  Senior Integrative Seminar.  (3) (MPC)
This course brings together BIS seniors in a way that will complete the integrative nature of their course work. It is a true seminar in its intensive, collaborative, and rhetorical nature. The course re-inforces and extends the emphasis on "self," "others," and "product/outcome" characterizing the three BIS seminars.Prerequisites: BIS 201 and a grade of C- or better in BIS 301.
BIS 410.  Advanced Special Topics Seminar in Integrative Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
Topical offerings in Integrative Studies in emerging and established fields of interdisciplinary study such as Critical Animal Studies, Youth Studies, Area Studies, Critical Race Studies, and Environmental Studies. May be taken for credit more than once with different content and permission of instructor. IC.
BIS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel