Business Legal Studies (BLS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Business Legal Studies (BLS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Business Legal Studies (BLS)
Business Legal Studies (BLS)
BLS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BLS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BLS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
Available to Farmer School of Business (FSB) majors and minors. Available for 0 credit hour during spring, summer and fall terms. Available for 1 credit hour during summer terms only. For one hour of credit, student must secure a sponsoring FSB faculty member within his/her major or minor to supervise the internship and accompanying required internship reflection paper. BLS 340 is not available during winter term. Students are to work through their respective academic departments to enroll in the course. Credit/no credit only. Note: FSB students may earn a maximum 2 credit hours toward graduation for BLS/BUS/ECO/ESP/FIN/ISA/MGT/MKT 340.Prerequisite: 55 earned hours and permission of department.
BLS 342.  Legal Environment of Business.  (3) (MPT)
Nature and sources of law; legal analysis and reasoning; judicial system, litigation and alternative dispute resolution; constitutional and administrative law; criminal law; law of torts and products liability; ethics; international business law; law of contracts; law of agency; employment law; and government regulation of business.
BLS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BLS 442.  Business Associations & Communal Law.  (3) (MPT)
Study of the legal framework of various organizational forms in business; partnership; corporations; securities regulation and the study of the law of sales; commercial paper; secured transactions and bankruptcy.Prerequisite: BLS 342.
BLS 443.  Property Law.  (3)
Principles of real and personal property law; estates in land, instruments of conveyance, mortgages and leases; personal property topics include bailments, intellectual property, and computer law.Prerequisite: BLS 342.
BLS 462.  Estates, Wills & Trusts.  (3) (MPT)
Legal, financial, and practical considerations in creation, management, and conservation of an estate. Trust principles and practices; and federal estate and gift rules and planning techniques.Prerequisite: BLS 342.
BLS 464.  International Business Law.  (3) (MPT)
Provides framework for understanding international business and legal environment within which it operates. Study traditional commercial law topics, such as rights and obligations of buyer and seller under contract for international sale of goods. Study of private law of international business transactions and public law of international trade. Credit for graduation will not be given for more than one of BLS 464 or BLS 483.Prerequisite: BLS 342.
BLS 465.  Ethics, Law, & Business.  (3) (MPC)
Explores legal aspects of business decision-making from an ethical perspective. Focuses on the business manager as an ethical decision-maker and on the corporation as a social moral agent. Conducted in seminar style using cross-functional cases from the core business disciplines. This course may not be used as a finance major elective.Prerequisite: Farmer Business School core courses and senior standing or permission of instructor.
BLS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BLS 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel