Arts and Science (CAS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Arts and Science (CAS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Arts and Science (CAS)
Arts and Science (CAS)
CAS 116.  American Academic Culture Comm.  (3)
This course is specifically designed for directly-admitted, international students in their first semester at Miami. Students enrolling in this course will do so based upon the outcome of a speaking assessment taken prior to registration. The course will focus both on supporting the students' communicative competencies as well as introducing students to academic culture and resources at Miami University. Students who are enrolled in this course will not take UNV 101.
CAS 131.  Practical English Grammar for English Language Learners.  (3)
Designed to help students develop competence in using the English grammatical structures necessary to succeed in oral and written communication in both the university setting and everyday life. It will approach grammar as a system for “meaning-making,” rather than as an abstract set of rules. As much as possible, assignments and activities will be anchored to functions and communicative situations based on authentic academic interactions. Course enrollment is restricted to non-native speakers of English.
CAS 133.  Advanced Communication Strategies II: Speaking and Listening for Academic Contexts.  (3)
For students for whom English is not their first language. Intensive practice in English speaking and listening skills for academic contexts including understanding lectures, note-taking, class discussion, formal and informal presentation, and pronunciation. Open only to non-native speakers of English.
CAS 134.  Critical Reading & Discussion in Academic Contexts for English Language Learners.  (3)
Designed to offer international students intensive reading and discussion practices necessary for the American university setting. Essential reading strategies learned and developed in the course will prepare students for various discipline-focused courses. A systematic approach to the reading will be utilized, starting from standard reading skills to higher-order analytical and critical response skills. Finally, students will develop and deliver their own arguments by analyzing written and visual texts. This course is only open to non-native speakers of English.
CAS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CAS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
CAS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CAS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel