Commerce (CMR) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Commerce (CMR)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Commerce (CMR)
Commerce (CMR)
Note: There are some restrictions in applying CMR credits toward the Miami Bachelor of Science in Business degree. CMR courses do not satisfy any specific course requirements and a maximum of 12 CMR credit hours may be applied toward that degree. These restrictions do not apply to other Miami degrees such as the Bachelor of Integrative Studies (BIS).
CMR 101.  Introduction to Accounting I.  (3)
Introduction to double-entry accounting systems, journals, subsidiary ledgers, and the general ledger. Preparation of financial statements for service and merchandising concerns emphasized. Basic payroll procedures, cash account reconciliation, and completion of detailed practice set.
CMR 105.  Introduction to Marketing.  (3) (MPT)
General survey of the field of marketing including the marketing concept, management of the marketing-mix, analysis of the marketing environment, use of marketing information, understanding of buyer behavior, and selection of target markets.
CMR 106.  Introduction to Business and the Economy.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to various functional areas of business and everyday business and economic principles and problems including consumer choice, supply and demand, money, banking system, investment, growth, inflation, government policy, taxes, and employment. IIC.
CMR 108.  Introduction to Business Law.  (3)
Survey of business law including the legal system and environment in which business operates. Problems and solutions are investigated in areas of contracts, sales, bailments, commercial paper, agency and employment, partnerships and corporations, risk bearing devices, and property.
CMR 111.  Introduction to Management I.  (3)
Introduction to principles and practices of managing organizations. Exposure to contemporary management issues, functions of management, and the interrelationship between business organizations and the environment. Emphasis on development of supervisory skills.
CMR 112.  Introduction to Human Resources Management.  (3)
Emphasis on personnel function, management-worker relations, union and government regulation of the work place.Prerequisite: CMR 111 or permission of instructor.
CMR 117.  Personal Finance, An Introduction.  (3) (MPF)
An introductory course in managing your money to become more knowledgeable about personal finance, thereby enabling you to make wiser financial decisions. Topics include: career planning, financial tools, budgets, income taxes, checking and savings accounts, building good credit, credit cards and loans, vehicles, homes and other major purchases, managing health expenses, insurance, investments, retirement and estate planning. IIC.
CMR 125.  Medical Office Simulation.  (3)
Specialized simulation package for the student preparing for a position in the field of medical office administration. Emphasizes methods and procedures encountered when processing medical documents.
CMR 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CMR 181.  Computers and Business.  (3)
Hands-on course emphasizing role of computers in business, business information systems, and use of business software. Develop skill in using word processing, business graphics, electronic spreadsheets, database, and the Internet. Software utilized is regularly updated. Windows and Microsoft Office Professional currently used. Credit not given for both CMR 181 and CIT 154.
CMR 207.  Management Planning and Control.  (3)
Exploration of how accounting data is used by management to make decisions. Emphasizes budgeting, cash flow analysis, breakeven analysis, and "what-if" probability analysis. Computerized applications are an integral part of course.Prerequisite: CMR 101.
CMR 211.  Economics for Commerce.  (3)
This course covers basic microeconomics terms and concepts, including scarcity and choice, equilibrium, efficiency and equity, comparative advantage, allocating scarce resources, opportunity cost and the production possibility frontier and supply and demand, the function of prices in markets, and how markets work and sometimes don't work. It also covers production and cost structures and firms' behavior in perfect and imperfect competition markets.
CMR 220.  Professional Practice.  (0-2; maximum 6)
Students participating in associate's degree co-op program register for this course during semesters when they are on work assignment.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.Cross-listed with CIT 220 and ENT 220.
CMR 221.  Professional Development.  (1-3)
For students approaching the major career transition from college to work, either as a graduating student or as a co-op student. Focuses on clarifying plans, preparing resumes, improving interviewing skills, the job search process, assessing employment trends, and identifying and using career development resources.
CMR 224.  Medical Terminology.  (3)
Covers medical terms including definitions, spelling, and pronunciation along with their use in a workplace setting.
CMR 241.  Management of Business Operations.  (3)
Explore management approaches, philosophies and techniques to effectively and efficiently operate a business. Includes contemporary topics of e-service, technology management, process re-engineering and quality management.Prerequisite: CMR 111 or permission of instructor.
CMR 242.  Management of Small Business Operations.  (3)
Introduction to management concepts and procedures in starting, developing, and operating small businesses. Methods of planning, organizing, operating, and controlling small businesses are discussed.Prerequisite: CMR 101, CMR 111 or permission of instructor.
CMR 244.  Introduction to Global Business.  (3) (MPF)
The globalization of the U.S. economy significantly impacts both organizations and their employees. Business opportunities and career paths that once seemed assured, no longer are. This course analyzes how businesses and individuals compete in the new global economy. IC, IIIB.
CMR 261.  Customer Service & Satisfaction.  (3) (MPT)
Examines the importance of meeting and exceeding customers' expectations after the sale. Identify and explore issues related to developing long-term, loyal customers including the correction of minor problems and delivery and the generation of repeat business based on performance.Prerequisite: CMR 105 or permission of instructor.
CMR 263.  Sales and Promotions.  (3) (MPT)
Understand how advertising and other promotional techniques may be used to communicate with consumers. Learn how effective sales processes and promotional activities function as important aspects of a balanced marketing plan.Prerequisite: CMR 105 or permission of instructor.
CMR 266.  Consumer Behavior.  (3)
Explores the factors that drive consumers to make specific product and/or service selections in the marketplace. Understand the complexities of the product/service purchasing process as viewed through the eyes of the consumer.Prerequisites: CMR 105 or permission of instructor.
CMR 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CMR 281.  Business Communication Software.  (3)
Practical hands-on experience for learning fundamentals of word processing and other publication software to produce various business documents, reports, newsletters, brochures and catalogs. Software utilized is regularly updated.Prerequisite: CMR 181.
CMR 282.  Computer-Based Business Analysis.  (3) (MPF)
Practical application of analytical tools for managerial decision making using Microsoft Excel. Advanced formatting, charting, functions, formulas, and data organization are covered. Emphasis on presentation and analysis of data. V.
CMR 284.  Emerging Digital Technologies for Business.  (3)
This technology-focused course covers current and emerging digital technologies that drive productivity and inform decisions in today's organizations. Key topics include online collaboration, document and resource management, content management systems, and information systems. Online privacy and security issues are also addressed from both user and organizational perspectives.
CMR 285.  Business Information Management.  (3)
Focuses on understanding, from an end-user perspective, how databases provide the information necessary to run businesses. Develop a good understanding as to the steps necessary to deploy/transition into a new information system.Prerequisite: CMR 181 or permission of instructor.
CMR 286.  Digital Commerce.  (3)
The course focuses on the tools and practices used to engage in digital commerce. Topics include an introduction to online business models, online security and privacy, web site planning, and introductory site design and administration. Web development and administration tools are utilized.Prerequisite: CMR 181 or permission of instructor.
CMR 290.  Special Topics in Business Technology.  (1-3)
CMR 301.  Personal Organizational Skills.  (3)
The course focuses on personal development of skills vital to leadership with topics such as developing self-awareness, handling stress, managing conflict, building effective teams, making oral & written presentations, and conducting meetings. Individual skills are assessed using various measures.
CMR 302.  Financial Information for Managers.  (3)
The view of the non-financial manager/user of financial information is taken. Key concepts are reviewed with an emphasis on their managerial use and interpretation versus their construction. Accounting terms are presented with an emphasis on the non-financial manager/user of information.
CMR 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
CMR 361.  Marketing for the Small Business.  (3)
This course provides an overview of the marketing process as it relates to small business management. It covers fundamental marketing concepts, the marketing mix, competitive analysis, target markets, buyer behaviors, advertising and promotion. It also explores the use of a marketing strategy, local and global opportunities in the economy as well as the incorporation of social media marketing tools, franchising and ethics.Prerequisite: CMR 105.
CMR 362.  Business to Business Marketing.  (3)
CMR 362 focuses on the skills students need to understand the unique components of business to business (B2B) marketing. The course provides a practical understanding of the market processes: purchasing, segmentation, pricing, and strategy. Within these processes, we will explore and practice using frameworks and tools to manage marketing components for business markets This course also covers assessing industrial marketing opportunities and industrial competitive strategies.Prerequisite: CMR 105.
CMR 363.  Personal Selling.  (3)
CMR 363 will develop the skills students need to understand and utilize the process of personal selling. The course provides ideas, strategies and techniques to communicate and engage prospective customers and manage profitable customer relationships. Building rapport, creating strategic questions, active listening and delivering impactful presentations are key skills to be learned. A sequential sales process will cover relationship building, needs assessment, benefits presentation, closing and handling objections. Territory management and CRM will be learned through computer software. Within these processes we will explore the interrelationships with marketing mix components and understand how to best utilize and when to integrate marketing opportunities with personal selling efforts. This course also covers an intro to neuroscience and the power of story telling, ethical selling situations and the issues of unconscious bias.Prerequisites: CMR 105 and CMR 263.
CMR 401.  Leadership Decision Skills.  (4)
The belief of this course is leadership can occur at any level of the organization and that everyone can improve their leadership skills. This course will develop leadership decision making skills required for effective leadership through the study of leadership approaches/theories and applications.
CMR 402.  Cross Cultural Leadership Skills.  (3) (MPF)
Today's global business environment makes cross-cultural leadership a critical skill. This course will help you foster international awareness, appreciate global diversity and adapt to different business and social settings. It will explore business practices, communication and decision-making styles across countries. The course will focus on effective leadership skills of business development, negotiation, and motivation. This is a hands-on course that will include case studies, self-reflection papers and an in-depth country report. IC, IIIB.Prerequisite: CMR 244.
CMR 441.  Social Media and Career Development.  (3) (MPF)
In today's workplaces, the use of social media allows working professionals to become more visible and "connected." In CMR 441, the relationship between social media and career development will be studied as students learn about self-marketing, professional networking, and a variety of career search strategies. As active participants in Web 2.0 experiential activities, students will learn new skills in critical thinking, oral and written communications, interpersonal relationship-building, teamwork building, cross-functional training, and problem-solving approaches. Creativity and innovation in ideation, along with increased technological expertise in the use of a variety of social media platforms, is anticipated. Social media tools have the potential to create rich opportunities in self-directed learning, thought leadership, and professional networking, provided that the boundaries between casual and professional use are understood and respected. With this in mind, searching for a real-world career position using multiple research methodologies and several avenues of networking will be undertaken. IIC.
CMR 442.  Current Issues and Innovation in Small Business.  (3)
Exploration and analysis of issues and opportunities that currently face small and new businesses. Emphasis on developing short and long term strategies to address changing market, economic, and technological conditions. Address the need of innovation for business development and growth.Prerequisite: CMR 242.
CMR 461.  Sales Management.  (3)
CMR 461 is a comprehensive course in the principles of leading a small business unit sales organization. The course provides strategies and techniques to communicate and engage with sales representatives, specifically how they plan and execute successful processes to create and manage trusting, profitable customer relationships. We will explore situational leadership, the neuroscience of decision-making, territory management using CRM software, evaluate sales compensation and incentive programs as well as recruiting, interviewing, selecting and hiring.Prerequisites: CMR 111, CMR 263, CMR 362, and CMR 363.
CMR 495.  Strategic Management for Commerce.  (3) (MPC)
This capstone course provides students the opportunity to integrate and apply what they have learned throughout the bachelor of commerce program. Students will apply strategic planning and implementation practices that underlie a well-structured organizational strategy. Concepts will include present and future states of a business, resource allocation, and achieving competitive advantage. Using a combination of simulations and studies of real-world organizations, students will learn how to make strategies actionable under conditions of actual use.Prerequisite: senior status in a business-related degree program.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel