Educational Leadership (EDL) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Educational Leadership (EDL)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Educational Leadership (EDL)
Educational Leadership (EDL)
EDL 100.  Career Development for College Students.  (2)
This course is designed to take students through the process of clarifying career and/or academic goals. Students will do research assignments and activities designed to help them to learn about themselves and how to apply this information to career decision making.
EDL 110.  The University and the Student.  (1)
Helps students understand how the university operates and how its resources can be used to develop their educational goals. Taught in seminar style; designed to help develop personal relationships among students and instructor. For freshmen only. Credit/no-credit only.
EDL 115.  Miami Tribe Contemporary Issues I.  (1)
Introduce and explore the major issues that the Miami Tribe of Oklahoma faces today as a sovereign Nation. These issues will be contextualized within Indian Country as a whole as well as within the broader global indigenous community. Focus is on the issues of sovereignty, self-determination, governance, leadership, economic development, and education.
EDL 141.  Mentoring Diverse Students.  (2; maximum 2)
This course is the required training seminar for the Office of Diversity Affairs Connection Coach Peer Mentor Program. Only students accepted into the Connection Coach program through the Office of Diversity Affairs are permitted registration into this course.  This course illuminates the connection between student development theory and peer mentoring and peer coaching. It is intended that through the study of student development theory and cultural competency standards, as well as exercises around identity development, peer mentors will become more self-reflective. Furthering this understanding of self will result in a better-equipped mentor.
EDL 151.  The American University.  (2)
This course is intended to acclimate and acculturate first year International students to the U.S. educational culture and in particular to the Miami University culture. Through this highly experiential course, International students begin to build intercultural competencies, including the cultural intelligence necessary to succeed in an American university, and in the broader U.S. cultural context; are introduced to resources and offices on campus to assist in transition and adjustment; develop, adjust, and use academic skills needed to understand and navigate study load, test culture, academic integrity, class participation, residence hall life, advising, classroom technology, counseling and health issues, and extracurricular activities, among others.
EDL 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDL 195.  Team Building Development - Facilitation & Group Dynamics.  (2)
This course is an introduction to group facilitation and group management. This course will focus on the building and development of community. Students will think critically, process & debrief experiences within a community of people, and establish skills towards a Challenge Course Level 1 certification. Content will explore sequencing, planning and presenting activities. Student will have several opportunities to practice their skills in group facilitation and experience team building activities that they can then use in their professional life later on.
EDL 203.  Introduction to Critical Youth Studies.  (3) (MPF)
An overview of Critical Youth Studies which allows class participants to explore and appreciate their identities, to develop an awareness of issues affecting different populations of youth, and to learn a variety of tools for self-expression and activism. This curriculum draws from key fields in youth studies such as Educational Studies, Cultural Studies, Ethnic Studies, Gender Studies, Sexuality Studies, Performance Studies, Literary Studies, and Art Criticism to provide students with a multidisciplinary and layered understanding of youth. EDL 203 foregrounds underrepresented voices and bodies that have been invisible and/or marginalized within the study of youth, specifically, and U.S. society, generally. The primary aims of this course are to: 1) Introduce students to the area of critical youth studies, 2) Alert students to existing programs, initiatives, and movements connected to this area of study, 3) Expose students to ultidisciplinary ways of engendering self-expression as youth and working with youth. IIC. IC.
EDL 204.  Sociocultural Studies in Education.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Introduction to the field of social foundation of education using humanities and cultural studies approaches to investigate education in a diverse and democratic nation. IIB, IC.
EDL 215.  Miami Tribe Contemporary Issues 2.  (1)
In this course we will introduce and explore the major issues that the Miami Tribe of Oklahoma faces today as a sovereign Nation. These issues will be contextualized with comparisons to Indian Country as a whole as well as to broader global indigenous experiences. In this second semester of the course, we will specifically focus on the global manifestations of nationhood, sovereignty, and self-determination in classic governmental structures, like constitutions, and in locations or activities that are not normally associated with issues of political or economic sovereignty, like art. Through this exploration, we will attempt to develop a framework of comparative indigenous nationhood.Prerequisite: EDL 115.
EDL 216.  Myaamia Ecology & History 1.  (1)
In this course we will introduce, explore, and weave together various perspectives of Myaamia (Miami) ecology and history. The ecological observations of this first course will be heavily influenced by the seasonal transition from summer into winter that occurs during the fall semester. From these observations, the class will create a shared understanding of the web of relationships that links humans, animals, plants, landscapes, other-than-human beings, and the stories that one particular group of humans "the Myaamiaki" have told about these interactions over time. Through an exploration of some of the general aspects of Myaamia ecology and history, each individual participant of the class will begin develop their own personalized understanding of this complex web of relationships. Half of the class meetings will be dedicated to discussing historical topics, i.e. focused on the past, but one of our explicit goals is to discuss how historical understandings and ecological practices are a part of, or can be made a part of, our contemporary lives.
EDL 218.  Leadership Identity Development.  (3)
This course provides students with an intentional and guided examination of their leadership identity. Over the course of the year, students will participate in leadership development and reflection activities grouped within four domains of exploration: Self, Others, Knowledge and Experiential. Students will draw from these domains to develop a personal leadership philosophy that can help guide their future leadership activities. The course activities are completed in a self-paced format and complemented by monthly seminar meetings.
EDL 224.  Introduction to Education Policy.  (3)
This course provides an introduction to educational policy in the United States. We will examine both the broader political context within which education policy is made as well as the policy making process. The course will introduce students to a range of current topics that define the current debates in education, including, but not limited to, test based accountability, equity and adequacy for special populations, and school choice. In analyzing these debates, students will use the various disciplinary perspectives to understand the complexity of current issues in American K-12 education.
EDL 232.  Introduction to Community-Based Leadership.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to Community-Based Leadership explores theories and practices of leadership in public institutions and communities. Students critically examine three concepts central to community-based leadership: public, leadership, and democracy. Using the scholarship of leadership studies and civic engagement, students explore what it means to work in public life and lead for the public good in local, national, and international contexts. Students accomplish these goals through readings, class discussions, analytical and reflective writing, and community-based learning experiences connecting theory with practice. The course will help students develop their own vision and plan for participating in community-based leadership as Miami students and as engaged citizens. IIC.
EDL 260.  Undergraduate Research: Special Topics.  (1; maximum 4)
Using the discovery learning model and inquiry-based learning, this course is designed to push students beyond their desire to gain information from external authorities. This course will be offered to students who are engaged in undergraduate research. This is a special topics course that may include experience and discuss library research techniques; research ethics and human subjects; organizational strategies for college researchers; literature reviews, research annotations and abstracts; leadership and communication skills; quantitative and qualitative research techniques; statistical software; research careers and professional development; learning plans, personal mission statements and goal setting; proposal writing and poster development and presentation.
EDL 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDL 281.  Outdoor Leadership Study Away/Study Abroad.  (3)
This course examines the role of an outdoor leader through study and work at off-campus sites. Students explore theoretical and practical implications of this type of leadership in a study-away context. Pre-trip preparation will include learning about group dynamics, trip planning models, expedition behavior, risk management, and environmental stewardship in the context of outdoor leadership. The course will include a variety of location-based outdoor adventure activities and experiences to enable students to put theory to practice in an outdoor setting. EL.
EDL 290.  The Nature of Group Leadership.  (2; maximum 6)
A two-credit course for students interested in exploring multiple approaches to leadership and building capacity for socially responsible leadership. The course involves engaged learning through community action work, skill building, reading, writing, case analysis, and dialogue.
EDL 301.  Student Development in Residence Halls.  (1)
Practical study of theories and techniques used in creating and maintaining learning environments that foster student growth and development in college residence halls. Includes student development theories, community development techniques, personal and environmental assessment, and strategies for influencing group living and behavior.Prerequisite: current resident assistant or permission of instructor.
EDL 302.  Career Entry Skills and Post-College Planning.  (2)
Designed to assist students in making the transition from college to the world-of-work, service, self-employment, and/or graduate or professional school. Gain awareness of self and how skills, interests, and values impact career satisfaction and success, clarify career options and/or post-college opportunities, develop necessary job search correspondence and interview techniques and prepare for the transition from student life to professional life.
EDL 310.  College Student Development and Group Process for Peer Educators.  (1)
An interactive course providing a theoretical and applied examination of college student development and group process as they relate to peer education. Major content areas include: models of college student development, communication and helping skills, workshop design, and multicultural considerations in programming.
EDL 312.  Foundations of Education in Global Contexts.  (3)
This class will focus on the theoretical foundations of education in global contexts, as well as issues influencing the field. Topics will include: globalization; education reforms, political, cultural, and religious influences, centralization and decentralization policies, colonialism and its legacies, and access to education among others. The goal of this class is to uncover why education is the way it is in other contexts, determine the limitations of understanding other contexts, and evaluate the extent to which elements of education are transferable between contexts.
EDL 315.  Disability History in America.  (3) (MPF)
An introduction to the history of disabilities in America, providing an overview of major themes, events, individuals, policy developments and political and social activism of, by, and for people with disabilities, as well as an introduction to the historical subfield of history of disabilities. IIB, IC.Cross-listed with DST.
EDL 316.  Myaamia Ecology & History 2.  (1)
In this course we will continue to weave together the various perspectives of Myaamia (Miami) ecology and history, which were introduced in the first semester. The ecological observations of the second course will be heavily influenced by the seasonal transition from winter into summer that occurs during the spring semester. From these observations, the class will create a shared understanding of the web of relationships that links humans, animals, plants, landscapes, other-than-human beings, and the stories that one particular group of humans "the Myaamiaki" have told about these interactions over time. Through an exploration of some of the general aspects of Myaamia ecology and history, each individual participant of the class will begin develop their own personalized understanding of this complex web of relationships. Half of the class meetings will be dedicated to discussing historical topics, i.e. focused on the past, but one of our explicit goals is to discuss how historical understandings and ecological practices are a part of, or can be made a part of, our contemporary lives. The second semester of this course will more explicitly focus on traditional stories and historical narratives. These oral and textual sources will be used to contextualize the ecological knowledge that students began developing in the first semester of the course.
EDL 317.  Myaamiaatawenki: Myaamia Language & Culture 1.  (1)
This course is the first of a two-course series that introduces the Myaamia language and culture. The goal of this class is to expose students to Myaamia language and culture and create thoughtful discussions about why maintaining the Myaamia heritage language and culture is important. This course will build off of the experiences, knowledge, and skills acquired in EDL 316 by adding greater linguistic and cultural complexities to students' knowledge of contemporary issues and historical and ecological contexts. The course will advance each student's use of the Myaamia language towards a more functional level. Students will be exposed to more immersive language environments and will demonstrate an ability to express simple wants and needs in the Myaamia language.Prerequisite: EDL 316.
EDL 318A.  Teacher Leadership and School Organization.  (3)
This course is designed to challenge and shape students' conceptions of educational organizations and cultures; their professional development as teachers and/or educational staff members; as well as the acts of teaching, curriculum development, teaming and leadership. The course encourages the development of personal and professional theoretical frameworks and practical tools for enhancing awareness of and action in educational roles as decision-maker, curriculum-creator, inquirer, community member/builder, democratic citizen, team member, teacher and leader.
EDL 318E.  Teacher Leadership and School Organization.  (3)
This course is designed to challenge and shape students' conceptions of educational organizations and cultures; their professional development as teachers and/or educational staff members; as well as the acts of teaching, curriculum development, teaming and leadership. The course encourages the development of personal and professional theoretical frameworks and practical tools for enhancing awareness of and action in educational roles as decision-maker, curriculum-creator, inquirer, community member/builder, democratic citizen, team member, teacher and leader.
EDL 318M.  Teacher Leadership and School Organization.  (3)
This course is designed to challenge and shape students' conceptions of educational organizations and cultures; their professional development as teachers and/or educational staff members; as well as the acts of teaching, curriculum development, teaming and leadership. The course encourages the development of personal and professional theoretical frameworks and practical tools for enhancing awareness of and action in educational roles as decision-maker, curriculum-creator, inquirer, community member/builder, democratic citizen, team member, teacher and leader.
EDL 333.  Youth, Media & Pop Culture.  (3)
This course offers a critical analysis of role of media and pop culture in the lives youth. Students will examine how youth interact with and influence diverse forms of media. Course content will explore how cultural products such as media and pop culture shape societal views of youth and inform how youth view themselves.
EDL 334.  Transnational Youth Cultures.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Using contemporary social and educational theory, this course introduces the student to the historical construction of adolescence and youth in global context. The course also explores cultural practices of transnational youths as a socio-historical construction that is affected by contemporary conditions of neo-liberalism, neo-colonialism and globalization. IIIB, IC.Cross-listed with AAA.
EDL 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
EDL 351.  Leadership Ethics in Community Contexts.  (3) (MPF)
An applied ethics course for students pursuing leadership studies or roles within community, non-profit, or educational contexts. Students will learn about moral theories relevant to leadership work, apply theory to practice through case analysis, and engage in reflection to deepen moral perception and commitments for leadership work. IIB.
EDL 369.  Sexuality, Youth, Education.  (3)
This interdisciplinary course utilizes insights from a variety of areas - such as literature, sociology, popular culture, law, and medicine - to analyze how contemporary discourses of sexuality are viewed from multiple perspectives. The course investigates how discourses of sexuality co-mingle with discourses of youth with special attention to the intersections of race, ethnicity, class, gender, nationality and ability. Working from a Critical Youth Studies (CYS) framework and similar theoretical positions, the course privileges scholarship and community-based educational models which foreground issues of equity, social justice, and youth participatory activism. Central questions addressed throughout the course include: What is sexuality, and what does race have to do with it? How are notions of innocence, purity, risk and danger tied to particular bodies, identities and desires? How do the logics, structures and processes of late capitalism and globalization shape the cultural politics of sexuality?.
EDL 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDL 382.  Community-Based Research & Learning in Education.  (3)
This course introduces students to community-based approaches to research, learning, and development with an emphasis on education issues. Working with local non-profits, schools, and community organizations students will use community-based participatory research (CBPR) as a research paradigm to explore and address a range of education issues at the community level. This course will familiarize participants with key principles of CBPR practice; community assessment; issue analysis; research planning; data gathering; and data sharing. The course will also develop student capacities in cultural competence; working with diverse populations; and ethical considerations in community-based work.
EDL 383.  Service in Urban Communities.  (3)
The purpose of this course is to afford students the opportunity to implement or be involved in a service project in or with a local urban community that will run over the duration of the semester. The course provides students the opportunity to further develop themselves as servant-leaders who are culturally proficient, critically aware of the race and class dynamics that shape life in urban communities, and thoughtful about how best to respond to challenges that hinder community wellbeing.
EDL 390.  A Comparative View of Student Affairs Practice II.  (4)
This study abroad course is an opportunity for students to delve more deeply into international perspectives on higher education and student affairs work. Enrollment in this course requires engagement in pre-departure sessions, travel abroad to gain a first-hand view of higher education systems and student affairs work in other countries, and participation in a post-travel class session debriefing the travel experiences and exploring the implications for a career in student affairs.
EDL 416.  Myaamiaataweenki: Myaamia Language & Culture 2.  (1)
This course is the second of a two-course series that introduces the Myaamia language and culture. The goal of this class is to expose students to intermediate concepts in the Myaamia language and culture and to develop thoughtful representations of the use of the Myaamia language and culture. This course will build off of the knowledge students gained in EDL 317 by adding greater linguistic and cultural complexities to students' knowledge of contemporary issues, historical contexts, and ecological changes. In this course, students will continue to practice the functional language skills developed in EDL 317. By the end of the course, students will have developed an ability to recount and understand short narrative speech in the Myaamia language.Prerequisite: EDL 317.
EDL 464.  Community-Based Leadership and Change.  (3)
This course provides students with an opportunity to synthesize what they have learned about community-based leadership through their coursework in the CBL minor and demonstrate mastery of primary leadership competencies, concepts, principles and practices. Students will be guided in designing and developing a substantial research project that incorporates significant learning from their program. This course challenges each student to choose an aspect of community to impact, and to create and begin implementing an actual community engagement strategy. Readings and discussions focus on effective tools and strategies for creating lasting change, including the leader's role as a catalyst and convener.Prerequisite: EDL 232.
EDL 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDL 600.  Independent Reading.  (1-3; maximum 9)
Planned reading in a field of educational leadership with guidance of a department member.Prerequisite: graduate standing and permission of department chair.
EDL 601.  Educational Leadership Theory.  (3)
Study of theory and practice of educational leadership. Instructional strategies include case study, simulations, and tutorials. Integrates theory with issues of field-based practice. First in a series of four required courses.Prerequisite: graduate standing and permission of instructor.
EDL 606.  Curriculum Innovation and Transformation through Understanding and Design.  (3)
This course is designed for educators interested in learning more about the curriculum in use in classrooms, schools, and community organizations, and the possibilities for shaping and transforming curriculum and teaching practices. The course will introduce students to important issues in curriculum theory and practice.Cross-listed with EDT.
EDL 607.  School Law.  (3)
General study of public education law with particular emphasis on school law in Ohio. Major attention given to landmark cases and their effects upon public education.
EDL 609.  Politics In Education.  (3)
Provides broad understanding of the politics of school governance and management, including the analysis and ethics of educational policy at the local, state, and federal levels.
EDL 614.  Family-Community-School Partnerships.  (3)
Analysis of school-linked and community-based partnerships aimed at enhancing the well-being of children, youth, families and schools. Family-centered, culturally-responsive practice principles and empowerment strategies are emphasized.Cross-listed with FSW.
EDL 621.  Foundations of Multi-Cultural Education.  (3)
Using interdisciplinary approach, course investigates what multicultural education is and why and how it has become an integral part of public school education.
EDL 624.  Ethics and Values in Education.  (3)
An applied philosophy course focusing on the study and use of ethical frameworks for educational practice and decision-making for educators working in K-16 contexts. Theories and applications of moral education are also examined.
EDL 629.  History of Education in America.  (3)
Origin and development of educational thought and institutions in the United States.Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor.
EDL 630.  Applied Studies in Educational Administration.  (1-3; maximum 15)
Practicum focusing on contemporary administrative and organizational issues in schools, including data analysis, effective professional communication, and special education policies and procedures.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
EDL 630B.  Connect Sch Ldshp to Standards.  (2)
EDL 640.  Internship.  (0-12; maximum 6)
EDL 645.  Supervision of Teaching.  (3)
Principles, methods, techniques, and problems of leadership in improving programs in elementary and secondary schools.Prerequisite: graduate standing; elementary, middle, or secondary curriculum course; or permission of instructor.
EDL 646.  Curriculum Development for Instruction.  (3)
Curriculum organization procedures, evaluation and theory in preparation of educational leaders. A course blending theory and field experiences.
EDL 647.  Curriculum and Cultural Studies.  (3)
Students will be exposed to cultural studies' perspectives of education, including critical media literacy and the role of popular culture in American education.Prerequisite: EDL 639.
EDL 648.  Data-Informed Decision Making in Education.  (3)
Students in this class learn contemporary educational research methods and develop skills to plan and complete a systematic action research inquiry into educational practice. The class introduces students to research design, review of relevant literature, implementation, and evaluation.Cross-listed with EDT.
EDL 654.  Foundations of Educational Research in Higher Education.  (3)
Introduction to the diverse theoretical foundations of educational inquiry and exploration of the diverse approaches used in empirical educational research to enhance practice in student affairs/higher education contexts.Prerequisite: enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 656.  Professional Development and Field Experience in Student Affairs.  (1-4)
Supervised practice in student affairs and higher education contexts. Prerequisite: enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 656G.  Field Experience Exploration.  (4)
Supervised practice in student affairs and higher education contexts. Prerequisite: enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 656I.  Field Experience Synthesis.  (3)
Supervised practice in student affairs and higher education contexts. Prerequisite: enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 657.  Internships in Student Affairs.  (1-7; maximum 7)
Graduate students participating in a Student Affairs in Higher Education (SAHE) internship register for this course during the semester they are on work assignment.Prerequisite: EDL 676.
EDL 660.  Seminar in Student Affairs/Higher Education.  (1-3)
Focuses on specialized topics in student affairs in higher education. Prerequisite: enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 661.  Quantitative Research in Higher Education.  (3)
Introduction to quantitative research in student affairs/higher education. Explores implications for disciplined inquiry in higher education (e.g., research, assessment, and evaluation).Prerequisites: EDL 654 and SAHE major or permission of instructor.
EDL 666.  Student Cultures in the College Environment.  (3)
Overview of studies conducted on the formation and development of college student cultures. Particular emphasis upon understanding student cultures and their relationship to student affairs practice.Prerequisite: EDL 676 and enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 667.  Diversity, Equity, and Dialogue in Student Affairs.  (3)
Critically examines issues in higher education access and equity with special attention on race and social class. As a way to learn to have conversations about diversity, this course introduces students to Intergroup Dialogue, a facilitated strategy for engaging in dialogue across difference.Prerequisite: enrollment in SAHE program or permission of instructor.
EDL 671.  Crisis Management & Educational Leadership.  (3)
This course merges literature on crisis management with that on campus leadership and organizational change. During the semester, we examine and discuss documented cases of campus leadership in times of crisis, as well as best practices in campus crisis management. Topics include defining and classifying types of crises, the development of a written emergency response plan and a crisis management team, communication with different audiences, identification of internal and external resources, and institutional change as a result of crisis. Students complete this course better prepared to successfully transition into positions as campus administrators with an understanding of the types of critical incidents they may encounter and how their own leadership style might influence their response in such situations.Prerequisite: EDL 706.
EDL 672.  Intergroup Dialogue in Higher Education.  (3)
Provides students an opportunity to engage in Intergroup Dialogue, a facilitated approach to engaging in dialogue across identities, such as race, sexual orientation, social class, gender, and religion. Explores notions of privilege, oppression, and development as a social justice ally in education contexts.Prerequisite: EDL 667 or permission of the instructor.
EDL 675.  Student Development Theory I.  (3)
Study of basic theoretical perspectives underlying college student development, assessment of development, and application of theory to student affairs practice.S. or Ph.D. in SAHE or permission of instructor.Prerequisite: enrolled in M.
EDL 676.  Foundations of Student Affairs in Higher Education.  (3)
Focuses on the historical, philosophical and theoretical foundations of student affairs.Prerequisite: enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDL 678.  Student Development Theory II.  (3)
In-depth study and critique of selected student and adult development theories, assessment of students' development of those theories, and application to student affairs practice.Prerequisites: EDL 677 and enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 680.  Special Topics in Equity, Diversity, and Culture: Theoretical Perspectives on Diverse College Studen.  (3)
Explores the impact of different theoretical perspectives on an understanding of college students, student affairs, and higher education. Among the theoretical perspectives that may be included are critical race theory, feminist theory, critical theory, and queer theory. Theoretical perspectives covered in this course will differ by semester. Repeatable up to 6 credits.Prerequisite: enrollement in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 681.  Leadership Perspectives on Student Affairs and Higher Education.  (3)
Experiential approach to the study of administration in student affairs organizations. Case studies, workshops, and small group assignments used to develop skills in leadership, staff evaluation, supervision, and planning and management of change.Prerequisite: enrolled in SAHE or permission of instructor.
EDL 683.  Qualitative Research in Education.  (3)
Introduction to the field of qualitative research in K-16 educational environments, including multiple interpretivist and critical traditions.Prerequisites: EDL 654 and SAHE major or permission of instructor.
EDL 685.  Spirituality and Leadership in Education.  (3)
This course examines key literature and pertinent issues related to spirituality and educational leadership such as character development, servant and ethical-moral leadership, and culturally relevant faith traditions across multiple higher education contexts. These issues, among others, are closely linked to values-based personal development and are critical elements in learning about and promoting holistic leadership development. We will examine literature in this growing field of study, discuss the affect and significance of various key concepts, and mutually construct ways to connect theory to practice.Prerequisite: enrollment in SAHE program or permission of instructor.
EDL 690.  International Perspectives on Student Affairs.  (3)
Through comparative study and site visits students will explore how different cultures shape and inform societies' systems of higher education and student services. The course emphasizes developing a global perspective on student affairs practice.Prerequisite: enrollment in SAHE program or permission of instructor.
EDL 696.  Student Success in Higher Education.  (3)
Less than 60% of college students earn a bachelor’s degree within six years in the United States. Creating and sustaining conditions that foster student success is essential to increasing access, persistence, and graduation rates in higher education. Despite the increased representation of first-generation, low-income, and racial/ethnic minority college students, these populations continue to be underrepresented and underserved at U.S. colleges and universities. This course will explore different theoretical perspectives to advance research, policies, and programs that increase student success in higher education.Prerequisites: based on their concentration, students will need to take on the foe following courses: EDL 654, EDL 667, EDL 677 or EDL 706.
EDL 706.  Educational Leadership and Organizational Development.  (3)
Study of concepts, literature, and research in leadership and its relationship to the development and maintenance of the organization.Prerequisite: EDL graduate program admission or permission of the instructor.
EDL 710.  Internship in Educational Leadership.  (3; maximum 6)
Planned program of leadership responsibilities in an educational institution or agency with major emphasis on participation in practical applications of roles associated with school administration. Enrollment only after contact with the internship director.
EDL 721.  Pupil Personnel Services.  (1-3; maximum 3)
Organization and analysis of pupil services offered to a school district. Current issues, especially legal and ethical, are examined.
EDL 723.  Public School Finance.  (3)
Local, state, and federal systems of financial support for education. Addresses basic revenue and allocation issues from a national and an Ohio perspective.
EDL 725.  School Staff Personnel Administration.  (1-3)
Basic course in school personnel sequence; emphasis on licensed staff; recruitment, supervision, evaluation, staff development, collective bargaining, and employer-employee relationships.
EDL 727.  School Business Affairs and Physical Resources.  (3)
Basic principles and procedures of business management as they relate to educational institutions and agencies, including budgeting, purchasing, maintenance, management of school facilities, educational specifications, enrollment projections, capacity and utilization, and auxiliary services.
EDL 729.  Board-Superintendent-Staff Relationships.  (3)
Case study and simulation approach to the identification and analysis of interrelationships, conflicts, and effects of employee organizations and pressure groups on educational decision making and policy formulation.
EDL 730.  New Literacies for Educational Leadership.  (2)
An orientation to mass media, social media, and online learning environments as they contextualize the practice of educational leadership in schools and districts. Emphasis on new technological literacies for engaging students, teachers, and parents/citizens through innovative, responsible uses of diverse media formats.
EDL 731.  Learning Partnerships & Transformational Learning.  (3)
Introduction to learning as personal transformation for social change and social justice. Interdisciplinary perspectives on learning in higher education: role of college student development, diversity, and culture in learning; role of higher education organizations and structures in learning; historical perspective on higher education learning; global implications for college learning.Prerequisite: SAHE major or permission of instructor.
EDL 741.  Perspectives on College Learners' Experience.  (3; maximum 6)
Exploration of college learners' experience from multiple disciplinary perspectives including history, comparative education, anthropology, and developmental psychology. Each seminar offering will include two of these perspectives. Repeatable up to 6 credits.Prerequisite: SAHE major or permission of instructor.
EDL 745.  Perspectives on Higher Education Learning Contexts.  (3; maximum 9)
Exploration of college learning contexts from multiple disciplinary perspectives including history, social foundations, comparative education, anthropology, organizational theory, and developmental psychology. Each seminar offering will include two of these perspectives. Repeatable up to 9 credits.Prerequisite: SAHE major or permission of instructor.
EDL 750.  Advanced Independent Reading.  (1-3; maximum 9)
Independent readings appropriate for advanced graduate students. Cannot earn more than nine hours credit toward minimum requirements for any one degree with combination of EDL 600 and EDL 750 (see EDL 600).Prerequisite: post-master's standing.
EDL 751.  Social & Political Engagement in Higher Education.  (3)
Explore philosophical theories and discourses to address moral and political questions regarding the ultimate aims of post-secondary education, focusing primarily on the United States 2- and 4-year college and university system. Opportunity to integrate and synthesize understanding of learning, learners, and learning contexts into a professional philosophy of education.Prerequisite: EDL 731 and SAHE major or permission of instructor.
EDL 761.  Introduction to Doctoral Study in Educational Leadership.  (3)
An orientation to doctoral study in educational leadership, emphasizing goal setting, research skills, and studying in a diverse community.Prerequisite: admission to EDL doctoral program.
EDL 762.  Culture and Leadership in Education.  (3)
This core introductory doctoral seminar is designed to explore various social theories that consider the relationship between culture and educational leadership. The course will focus on a few theories that provide promise for new ways of constructing a theory of culture-based leadership.
EDL 763.  Seminar in Advanced Qualitative Research Methodology.  (3)
This course prepares doctoral students to conduct independent dissertation research utilizing qualitative research methodologies including critical narrative analysis, ethnography and case study research. As an advanced interdisciplinary seminar, students should come with some experience involving the theory and practice of person-based or textual research.Prerequisite: EDL 683 or permission of instructor.
EDL 764.  Education and Democratic Society.  (3)
This core doctoral seminar explores educational questions of democracy, justice, and cultural difference through disciplinary lenses of the social foundations of education, primarily philosophy and history of education. Students will study, compare, contrast and critique several different conceptual frameworks for understanding democratic theory and educational practice.
EDL 765.  Curriculum, Pedagogy and Diversity.  (3)
A core doctoral seminar providing students with a foundational understanding of the historical and contemporary issues, theories, and practices that make up the curriculum field.
EDL 771.  Educational Policy Analysis.  (3)
Provides broad understanding of educational policy considerations of formulation and implementation of decisions. Conceptual and methodological conclusions about the complex nature of educational governance and organizational analysis are examined.
EDL 772.  Quantitative Research Design in Education.  (3)
Introduction to Quantitative Research in education. Students identify a research problem and apply analytic and design skills necessary to develop a dissertation proposal.Prerequisites: EDL 661 or EDL667/EHS 667.
EDL 774.  Scholarship of Practice.  (2; maximum 4)
To cultivate the knowledge, habits and skills associated with inquiry-driven leadership through exploring, designing, and executing research around problems of practice in educational contexts. Students will gain advanced knowledge and skills related to application of research-based knowledge in educational leadership to policy and practice, including applications that address the critical challenges of improving education for all learners in complex, multicultural environments.
EDL 775.  Capstone in Educational Inquiry.  ()
Seminar to explore major theoretical foundations used in educational research. Examines different educational researchers conceive of the concepts of knowledge and social reality and how those concepts affect educational research.Prerequisite: EDL 683 and EDL 772.
EDL 776.  Research/Inquiry Practicum in Student Affairs/Higher Education.  (3; maximum 6)
Conduct supervised research with faculty. Students will gain hands-on experience in all aspects of research process including: framing research questions, choosing methodology and methods appropriate to the research question, Institutional Review Board approval, data collection, data analysis and interpretation, and scholarly writing.Prerequisite: EDL 654; SAHE major or permission of instructor.
EDL 780.  Advanced Seminar in Educational Administration.  (1-5; maximum 15)
Various topics of current interest.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
EDL 781.  Youth, Culture and Education.  (3)
Explores youth subcultures with implications for how educators develop a culturally-relevant, engaging curriculum and pedagogy. This course applies a cultural studies and youth studies research lens for considering how representations of youth that circulate in US culture impact the way educators imagine, engage, and regulate youth in and through educational ideology, policy and practice.
EDL 782.  Social Justice and Transformation.  (3)
This course introduces major theories of social justice and links these to the practice of social justice education in schools and communities through active school-community engagement in a field-based project.
EDL 783.  Curriculum, Politics, and Policy.  (3)
This course explores how curriculum is conceived in educational policy. Students engage in critical analysis of the politics and policies of formal and informal curriculum.
EDL 784.  Power, Knowledge and Difference.  (3)
This course examines the educational and curricular consequences of the epistemological foundations of western educational philosophy. In particular the course examines the challenges posed to these foundations by diverse standpoint epistemologies, including feminist theory, critical race theory, queer theory and post colonial theory.
EDL 785.  Theorizing Gender, Sexuality, and Education.  (3)
This course examines the multiple, changing meanings and political effects of gender and sexuality in various socio-cultural and educational contexts. It foregrounds analysis of how social institutions, such as education, the law, family and economy, and cultural representations, such as literary and popular media, shape competing concepts of gender and sexuality. The course readings and collective dialogue place particular attention on feminist scholarship on women, girls and sexual minorities.Cross-listed with WGS 785.
EDL 786.  Race, Ethnicity, Education.  (3)
This course introduces key theories, concepts and epistemologies in critical race studies and considers how they frame and address educational injustice.
EDL 787.  Leadership for the Public Good.  (3)
This course is an examination of emerging models of leadership, organizational change, and leadership strategies for linking schools, families and communities. The course focuses on theoretical frameworks related to leadership and social and organizational improvement in schools and communities.
EDL 790.  Seminar in Curriculum and Supervision.  (1-3)
Intensive study of an aspect of or problem in curriculum and supervision.D. or Ed.D. and permission of instructor.Prerequisite: advanced graduate student with a major or minor in curriculum and supervision, working toward Ph.
EDL 850.  Doctoral Dissertation.  (1-16; maximum 60)
Prerequisite: doctoral admission by department and permission of adviser.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel