Education, Health and Society (EHS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Education, Health and Society (EHS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Education, Health and Society (EHS)
Education, Health and Society (EHS)
EHS 195.  Leadership in Healthy Communities.  (1)
Seminar designed for EHS Leadership Scholars to promote personal growth, professional development and positive commitment to ones academic field. Focus will be placed on establishing leadership characteristics and playing a critical role in the various communities that we serve.
EHS 649.  Action Research for Educators.  (3)
Engages educators in action research as a way to study and improve, through informed decision-making, the dynamics of one's own practice. Culminates with a major action research project.
EHS 667.  Behavior Statistics.  (3)
The basic concepts of descriptive and inferential statistics are discussed. This course stresses the logical interpretation of results.
EHS 668.  Behavior Statistics II.  (3)
Advanced concepts of descriptive and inferential statistics are discussed. This course stresses the logical interpretation of results.
EHS 710.  Interdisciplinary Doctoral Lab.  (1-6; maximum 6)
This course will introduce the student to doctoral study focusing primarily on interdisciplinary and global issues that both cross and connect the domains of the school, family, health, and society. The course will be taught by a team of professors from different academic departments who are qualified to work with the doctoral students and also may include relevant field/research experiences. Topics for the doctoral labs may vary depending on the emphases of the students and the faculty facilitating the labs. Curriculum and faculty for the doctoral lab will be designated and monitored by the Educational Leadership Interdisciplinary Option Doctoral Committee in EHS.Prerequisite: acceptance into the Educational Leadership interdisciplinary option doctoral program in EDL.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel