English (ENG) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
English (ENG)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·English (ENG)
English (ENG)
ENG 007.  Fundamentals Of Writing.  (1-3)
Developmental work in grammar, mechanics, diction, and the writing process. Focuses on both form and content in preparation for ENG 111.
ENG 104.  Writing Studio.  (1)
A lab that supports students in their writing across the curriculum. Small group interaction provides intensified engagement with essentials of college writing such as invention, peer response, revision, critical thinking, research, documentation, editing, and delivery. Students reflect upon specific guidelines, goals, and contexts of writing assignments they encounter in courses in which they are enrolled across the curriculum.
ENG 105.  Writing Studio.  (1)
A lab that supports students in their writing across the curriculum. Small group interaction provides intensified engagement with essentials of college writing such as invention, peer response, revision, critical thinking, research, documentation, editing, and delivery. Students reflect upon specific guidelines, goals, and contexts of writing assignments they encounter in courses in which they are enrolled across the curriculum.
ENG 107.  Reading & Writing in Academic Contexts.  (4)
For non-native, English speaking students, an intensive reading and writing course focusing on reading comprehension, textual analysis, vocabulary, composing, and rhetoric. Students learn critical skills needed for success in academic writing. Prerequisites: Direct placement assessment or permission of the department.
ENG 108.  U.S. Cultures & Composition for Second-Language Writers.  (4) (MPF)
For students who need further work in English before enrolling in college composition. Course is restricted to non-native speakers of English. First-time registration for ENG 108 is limited to students who have not taken ENG 109, 111, or 112. At most 10 credit hours toward graduation can be earned from any combination of ENG 108, ENG 109, ENG 111, and ENG 112. IIIB.Prerequisite: EWPI 108000 or B- or better in ACE 113 or ENG 107.
ENG 109.  Composition and Rhetoric for Second-Language Writers.  (4) (MPF)
Adaptation of ENG 111 for non-native speakers; satisfies iMPF Foundation I. I. At most 10 credit hours toward graduation can be earned from any combination of ENG 108, ENG 109, ENG 111, and ENG 112.Prerequisite: EWPI 109000 or a passing grade in ENG 108.
ENG 111.  Composition and Rhetoric.  (3) (MPF)
Study and practice of effective explanatory, expressive, and persuasive writing. At most 10 credit hours toward graduation can be earned from any combination of ENG 108, ENG 109, ENG 111, and ENG 112. I.
ENG 112.  Composition and Literature.  (3)
Study and practice of effective explanatory, expressive, and persuasive writing in the context of an introduction to critical study of literature. At most 10 credit hours toward graduation can be earned from any combination of ENG 108, ENG 109, ENG 111, and ENG 112.Prerequisite: ENG 111.
ENG 119.  English for International Graduate Students.  (3)
This course is for international graduate students at Miami University who are assigned to the course based on their TOEFL scores and the English Department placement exams. The course serves as an American academic orientation with a reading and writing focus and helps graduate students develop advanced skills in academic writing and research, with opportunities to focus on the resources and expectations of their graduate majors Assignments in research and in English grammar complement the aims of the writing assignments; all course work is intended to increase student awareness and mastery of the organizational and grammatical patterns of a successful academic writing. As much as the course is reading and writing-oriented, the course also provides students opportunities to practice their spoken and listening skills through class discussions, peer reviews, and presentations.
ENG 121.  Literature for ESL Learners.  (3)
Designed to introduce second-language speakers to literatures in English and structured around the analysis of three literary forms (drama, poetry, and prose). Readings are accompanied by a discussion of historical and cultural contexts; special attention is given to critical thinking and analysis. Students will learn to recognize and apply various modes of literary criticism through both class discussion and written assignments. IIB. CAS-B.
ENG 122.  Popular Literature.  (3) (MPF)
Exploration in detail of one genre of popular literature. Possible subjects include detective fiction, science fiction, western, and romance novel. Special attention given to why a culture invests in popular genres. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 123.  Introduction to Poetry.  (3) (MPF)
Exploration of the wide range of literature and oral performance called poetry. Study of critical terms used to discuss and write about poetic conventions, forms, and sub-genres. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 124.  Introduction to Fiction.  (3) (MPF)
Study of basic characteristics (narrative design, character, point of view, style, and tone) and essential forms (short-short story, story, novella, and novel) of the genre of literary fiction. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 125.  Introduction to Drama.  (3) (MPF)
Critical analysis of dramatic literature from the ancient Greeks to modern performance art, using dramatic structure and theory to read play texts as productions of their cultural contexts. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 129.  Books You Need To Read.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to Literature through formal analysis of major works by authors such as William Shakespeare, Jane Austen, Mark Twain, and Toni Morrison. Designed for non-majors. Texts and authors vary. IIB. CAS-B.
ENG 134.  Introduction to Shakespeare.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to Shakespeare's works. Gives students who are new to collegiate-level literary studies an overview of the range of Shakespeare's works and the variety of approaches to those works. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 163.  Literature and Travel.  (3) (MPF)
Study of travel literature from a range of periods and genres. Includes the relation of individual and national identity, imperialism and cultural relativity, the invention of geography, and the politics of tourism. IIB, IIIB. IC. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 169.  Disability and Literature.  (3) (MPF)
This course studies the construction of disability identity in literature, personal memoir, and popular culture by investigating how texts that feature disability question notions of "normalcy" and "deviancy." It emphasizes interdisciplinary understandings of disability in historical and contemporary frameworks. IC, IIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with DST 169.
ENG 171.  Humanities and Technology.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Introduction to methods of thinking used in humanities disciplines (literature, history, philosophy, classics, etc.), computer technologies, and their relationship. Practical skills (web page making; research on the Internet) and analytical skills (how to tell good information from bad) combined with theories about the Information Society. IIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with IMS 171.
ENG 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ENG 198.  Literary London Program Orientation.  (1)
Part of the Literary London summer program, this orientation course prepares students to live abroad and study on-site in London. On the Oxford campus, students are given extensive pre-departure information about the study location and course preparation. During orientation week in London, students learn to navigate the study site and are introduced to the cultural history, institutions, and sites relevant to literary study through field trips, excursions, and guided tours.Co-requisites: two ENG courses offered in conjunction with the Literary London summer program.
ENG 201.  Special Topics in Language Awareness.  (3; maximum 9) (MPF)
Introduces various ways of looking at language: sociological, psychological, and formal. Students study how language plays a role in every human activity, from gender and racial stereotyping to the development of automata. May be taken three times, with different topics. IIC.
ENG 202.  Varieties of English: Dialect Diversity and Language Change.  (3) (MPF)
This interactive course focuses on varieties of English within the context of diverse cultures in the United States. Primary topics include: linguistic diversity, language change, gender differences in language use, language (use) and social class, attitudes toward language as well as examination of specific varieties of English such as African American English, Appalachian English, Native American English, Vietnamese American English, English spoken by persons of Latin American descent, Hawaiian Pidgin English, Gullah, Louisiana Creole, and others. IC, IIB. CAS-B-Other.
ENG 213.  Writing for Media.  (3)
Basic course in writing for radio and television, and new media, with emphasis on scriptwriting for feature film and narrative for television; treatment of documentary subjects; introduction to narrative forms in new media.Prerequisite: MAC 146, or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with MAC.
ENG 216.  Style: Strategies for Editing and Writing.  (3)
This course will focus on style for editors and writers. Students will learn how to make strategic decisions appropriate for audience, purpose, context, and genre. Throughout the semester, students will apply common editing techniques to their own and others’ texts.Prerequisite: ENG 109 or 111 or equivalent.
ENG 219.  Introduction to Linguistics.  (3) (MPF)
Scope of linguistics: fundamental concepts and methods of linguistic science (phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics) in its descriptive and historical aspects. V. CAS-E.Cross-listed with ATH/GER.
ENG 220.  Literature and Film.  (3; maximum 6) (MPF, MPT)
Study of the relationship between film and genres of literature, focusing on a comparison of techniques of rhetoric, fiction, and drama and those of film. Primary consideration given to film adaptations of works of fiction and drama. Extensive screenings of films. May be repeated once when topic changes. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with FST.
ENG 221.  Shakespeare and Film.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Study of selected plays of Shakespeare that have been filmed. Students read plays and view one or more versions of each play. IIB. CAS-B- LIT.Cross-listed with FST 221.
ENG 222.  The Rhetoric of Information and Data Visualization.  (3)
Methods, principles, and techniques for creating and critiquing verbal and visual arguments using information and quantitative data. Emphasizes a rhetorical and ethical perspective toward data representation and visualization, considering how to develop and design quantitative arguments and visual representations. Students will work with a variety of tools and techniques for presenting visual data in print and digital media. CAS-QL.
ENG 223.  Rhetorical Strategies for Writers.  (3)
Principles and practices of classical, modern, and visual rhetorics. Designed for students who want more intensive practice in developing arguments in academic, public, and professional contexts.
ENG 224.  Digital Writing and Rhetoric: Composing with Words, Images and Sounds.  (3) (MPT)
Students will analyze and produce digital multimodal compositions that integrate words, images, and sounds. No prior web or digital writing experience required. ADVW. Cross-listed IMS.
ENG 225.  Advanced Composition.  (3)
Practice in various types of expository and narrative writing. ADVW.Prerequisite: ENG 109 or ENG 111 (or AP and other placement credit).
ENG 226.  Introduction to Creative Writing: Short Fiction and Poetry.  (3)
Techniques and principles of creative writing with application to fiction, creative nonfiction, poetry, and hybrid forms. ADVW.Prerequisites: ENG 109 or ENG 111 (or AP and other placement credit).
ENG 230.  Studies in Themes and Genres.  (3; maximum 6)
Study of traditional literature, mainly English and American, organized according to themes and genres rather than by chronology. May be repeated once when topic changes. Does not count toward the English major. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 231.  The Short Story.  (3)
Study of the short story as a literary genre with its own unique conventions. Examples from both early and present-day masters. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 232.  Women Writers.  (3) (MPT)
Introduction to women's writing in English. Readings may include poetry, drama, fiction and non-fiction by women writers from various historical periods and national traditions. IC. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with WGS 232.
ENG 235.  Classical Hollywood Cinema.  (3)
This course examines the production of the so-called classical period of Hollywood cinema, beginning in the 1930s with the emergence of early sound and ending in the 1960s with the demise of the studio system. We will utilize an industry-studies approach, but will also explore the principal narrative and stylistic trends associated with the classical era, as well as its key creative figures- directors, producers, cinematographers, actors, etc. Weekly Screenings Required.Cross-listed with FST.
ENG 236.  Experimental Film.  (3) (MPT)
This course examines influential works and movements in experimental film, emphasizing filmmakers for whom the conventional entertainment narrative is an object of radical investigation. Working outside the traditions of commercial film, experimental filmmakers take alternative approaches not only to narrative but also to visual representation, sound production, and editing, often exploiting new or unconventional technologies to achieve their effects. The course will also consider critical and theoretical perspectives, situating the unconventional techniques of experimental film in relation to broader aesthetic, cultural, historical, and political contexts.Cross-listed with FST 236.
ENG 237.  GLBTQ Literature.  (3) (MPF)
Study of literature by and about sexual minorities, including gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and queer identities, cultural contexts, and social movements. IIB, IC. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with WGS.
ENG 238.  Narrative and Digital Technology.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Applies to digital games those notions about narrative structure and character development that have evolved in literature. Students will explore digital art as literary critics, asking whether games are art and analyzing how postmodern literary/digital art participates in globalization. Students compose narratives in writing as well as 3D graphics. IIB. CAS-B-Other.Cross-listed with IMS.
ENG 246.  Native American Literature.  (3) (MPF)
Survey of published Native American fiction, poetry, memoir, drama, and non-fiction from the mid-19th century to the present. Explores cultural contexts and emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach that includes historical, sociological, and anthropological as well as literary perspectives. IC, IIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with AMS 246.
ENG 248.  Asian American Literature.  (3) (MPF)
Survey of Asian American writing (including the novel, poetry, drama, nonfiction, etc.) from the early 20th century to the present. Addresses immigration experiences, growing up in America, and writing as cultural expression. Course uses an interdisciplinary approach to the study of literature, drawing on history, sociology, ethnic studies, and current trends in American literary studies. IC, IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with AAA/AMS.
ENG 249.  Asian & Asian American Cinema.  (3) (MPF)
Explores films in the contexts of Western colonial influences and legacies in Asia and Asian America. Students will learn how mainstream notions of nation, gender, sexuality, family values, social hierarchies and social change are constructed at the intersection of the audience, visual imagery, political, and economic contexts. We will also explore the role alternative cinema plays in challenging mainstream forms of knowledge production with the overall goal of critically evaluating how cinema creates, recreates, perpetuates and reproduces "Asian" cultures for global and local audiences. IC, IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-Humanities.Cross-listed with ENG 249/FST 249.
ENG 251.  Introduction to European Literature.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to the masterpieces of European literature, its creation stories, its epic heroes and heroines, its infamous loves and equally infamous deaths. From these literary works, you will gain a sense of the variety of human experiences across time and cultures and broaden your understanding of literary purpose. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 254.  Latino/a Literature and the Americas.  (3) (MPF)
Study of fiction, poetry, and non-fiction by Chicano/a, Cuban-American, Puerto Rican, and Central American writers, with an emphasis on the various cultural and historical contexts that influence and are represented in the writings. Specific study of writing in transnational communities situated in more than one part of the Americas. IC, IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with LAS 254.
ENG 255.  Love and Death in Nineteenth-Century Russian Literature.  (3)
MFP, MPT Examines works by Pushkin, Lermontov, Gogol, Turgenev, and Dostoevsky and a number of critical essays representative of a variety of viewpoints. Uses interdisciplinary approach that takes into account social, historical, political, religious, as well as literary factors. IIB. IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with RUS.
ENG 256.  Empire and Utopia in Russian Literature.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Treatment of selected works of Russian literature (realism, modernism, post-modernism) with attention to Tolstoy, Chekhov, Bunin, Sologub Bulgakov, Babel, Solzhenitsyn, and Nabokov. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with RUS.
ENG 262.  Children's Literature.  (3)
Broad study of children's books, with emphasis on acquiring skill to evaluate children's literature. Practice in the literary analysis of prose and poetry with emphasis on the impact of good literature for children. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 263.  Literature and Medicine.  (3) (MPF)
Medicine and literature have a long standing history. Aristotle’s own poetics made use of the medical term, catharsis. Even today, the diagnosis of symptoms is akin to the careful reading of a text; and the experience of (mental and physical) illness is shaped by storytelling as patients seek to convey their lived experience and by technologies that mediate that experience. This course focuses on texts that reflects medical experiences from the perspective of individual patients, practitioners and in the case of epidemics, societies. It uses reading, writing, thinking and discussion of those texts to investigate the different perspectives and belief systems that come into play in medical contexts, addressing issues of medical authority, end (quality) of life, the role of genre and technology in mediating the experience of illness, and the ways in which structural inequities in discourses of health are perpetuated. IIB, IC. CAS-B.
ENG 267.  Communism and Catastrophe in Modern Russian Literature.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Treatment of major trends in the development of Russian literature since 1953. Examines works by Pasternak, Solzhenitsyn, Rasputin, Trifonov, and others. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with RUS 257.
ENG 269.  Colonial & Postcolonial Literature.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to postcolonial literature and theories of colonial and postcolonial identity. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with AAA 269.
ENG 272.  English Literature to 1660.  (3)
Introduction to British English Literature and culture from the beginning to 1660, with attention to multiple historical, social, religious, philosophical and political contexts. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 273.  English Literature 1660-1900.  (3) (MPF)
British literature from 1660 to 1901, with attention to issues of class, race, gender, and empire in the context of accelerating economic, social, environmental, and political change; to developments in philosophy, science, and technology; and to relations with other arts. Considers major literary movements as well as major genres, including both poetry and fiction. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 274.  English Literature 1901 to Present.  (3) (MPF)
Selected British and Anglophone fiction, nonfiction, poetry, and drama from 1900 to present with special attention to the impact on literary imagination of global conflicts and loss of Empire in the context of cultural and political change. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 275.  American Literature to 1900.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to American Literature written from the colonial period through 1900. The course considers a multiplicity of voices as expressed in literary texts. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 276.  American Literature 1900 to the Present.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to American Literature and its cultural contexts written from 1900 to the present. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ENG 284.  Professional Communication for Business.  (3)
As part of the Farmer School of Business’s core curriculum, this course develops advanced rhetoric knowledge and skills needed to write and present effectively in local and global business contexts, including working in intercultural teams and digital networks.Prerequisites: ENG 109 or ENG 111 and BUS 101, BUS 102 BUS 104 and ESP 103.Cross-listed with BUS.
ENG 285.  Professional Communication for Data Analytics.  (3)
Focuses on data analysis reporting for data analytics majors. Students will develop rhetorical knowledge and skills needed to write and present data and data findings effectively for a variety of audiences, purposes, contexts, and media.Prerequisite: ENG 109 or ENG 111 (or AP and other placement credit).Cross-listed with STC.
ENG 293.  Contemporary American Fiction.  (3) (MPT)
Study of new trends and movements in American fiction of the last 10 to 15 years, focusing upon such issues as vision of society, experiments in narrative form and content, mode of humor, treatment of reality, and changing images of the self. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 298.  Introduction to Literary and Cultural Studies.  (3)
Introductory skill-based course to be taken within one semester after declaring literature major. Covers critical and interpretive terms and basic concepts of literary genre; develops skills of close reading, interpretation, and critical analysis; provides instructions in techniques of research and citation; and introduces various critical methods and approaches. ADVW. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 301.  History of the English Language.  (3) (MPT)
Linguistic and cultural history of British and American English, and other varieties of English around the world.
ENG 302.  Structure of Modern English.  (3) (MPT)
Linguistic structure of American English with specific reference to application in teaching.
ENG 304.  Backgrounds to Composition Theory and Research.  (3) (MPT)
Theoretical foundation of composition theory and research, emphasizing structure of writing, composing process, contemporary rhetoric, and linguistic based theories of composition.
ENG 310.  Special Topics in Rhetoric and Persuasion.  (3; maximum 6)
Intensive study of one or more specialized areas or elements of rhetoric and/or persuasion--such as ethnic/comparative, feminist, rhetoric of the public sphere, rhetoric of science, or rhetorical theories of delivery. Recommended prerequisite: ENG 223.
ENG 311.  Reading for Creative Writing: Contemporary Literature.  (3)
In-depth study of contemporary literature for creative writing majors. Works studied come from both the United States and abroad, with emphasis on works published within the last 25 years, usually within the last decade. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 313.  Technical Writing.  (3)
Introduction to the principles of technical writing. Attention to defining purpose, analyzing audience, developing document structure, creating visual design, drafting and revising communications. Practice in varieties of technical communication. ADVW.Prerequisite: ENG 109 or ENG 111 (or AP and other placement credit).
ENG 315.  Business Writing.  (3)
Study of writing techniques used in business environments and practice in applying them. ADVW.
ENG 316.  Legal Writing and Reasoning.  (3)
Students in this course will learn strategies for effective and persuasive legal writing, including the appropriate methodologies for legal reading, research and analysis. Students will gain experience writing in a number of genres, including case briefs, memoranda of law, and professional correspondence.Prerequisite: ENG 111/112 or waiver of the 111/112 requirement (through AP credit, honors program, etc); sophomore standing or above.
ENG 317.  Writing for Games.  (3)
Writing for Games offers students an opportunity to learn the genres and professional standards of writing for games and the gaming industry, including instructions, proposals, design documents, publicity documents, and in-game scripts. ADVW.Prerequisite: ENG 111.Cross-listed with IMS.
ENG 320.  Intermediate Creative Writing: Fiction.  (3; maximum 6)
Techniques and principles of narrative writing with special application to the short story. May be taken twice, but not with same instructor.Prerequisite: ENG 226.
ENG 321.  The Literary Marketplace.  (3)
Provides creative writing students with an introduction to the literary marketplace. Designed for students interested in careers as editors or reviewers, or for anyone interested in how books are produced, marketed, reviewed, and remaindered.
ENG 323.  Intermediate Creative Writing: Creative Nonfiction.  (3)
Intermediate workshop in creative nonfiction. Reading and analysis of published creative nonfiction books and essays, as well as class discussion of student writing in this genre. May be taken twice, but not with the same instructor.Prerequisite: ENG 226, JRN majors may take JRN 280 instead.
ENG 327.  Medieval Literature.  (3) (MPT)
Study of English literature from Beowulf to the poetry of Dunbar, especially in translation. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 328.  Sixteenth-Century English Literature.  (3)
This course addresses the literary culture of sixteenth-century England. Amidst clashes between Protestants and Catholics, literary texts engaged the political, religious, and poetic debates of the age, defining the meaning of tradition and innovation, imitation and originality. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 330.  Intermediate Creative Writing: Poetry.  (3; maximum 6)
Intermediate course in theory and practice of poetry writing with seminar study of relevant contemporary materials and criticism of student work in class and conference. Assigned exercises in techniques and forms. An average of 10 to 15 poems due each semester. May be taken twice, but not with same instructor.Prerequisite: ENG 226.
ENG 331.  Seventeenth-Century English Literature.  (3)
A sustained inquiry into the wide variety of writings that emerged from the tumultuous times of 17th-century Britain. The course may cover plays, poetry, court masques, visions, new world explorations and utopias, short romance, early novels, and popular pamphlets produced by proliferating printing presses. It may include works by Donne and the metaphysical poets; Jonson and the Cavalier poets; radicals such as Milton, Marvell, the Levellers, the Ranters, and the Diggers; and women writers such as Lanyer, Wroth, Cavendish, Hutchinson, Trapnel, and Behn. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 335.  English Literature of the 18th Century.  (3)
British prose and poetry of the 18th century. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 336.  African American Writing, 1746-1877.  (3) (MPT)
Focuses on eighteenth- and nineteenth-century African American writings, especially the slave’s narrative, a unique form of autobiographical writing that sought to expose the horrors of slavery in America, to end this institution, and to contest ideas about the inhumanity of African Americans. Pre and post Civil War African American novels continue to address problems of race, injustice, and demands for equal rights for African Americans. Attention to the traditions of black writing established by slave narratives, which laid the foundation for African American literature and cultural and artistic production. IC. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with BWS.
ENG 337.  African American Writing, 1878-1945.  (3) (MPT)
Despite the optimism occasioned by the fall of slavery, the years covered in this course are known as the era of Jim Crow, which was not characterized by the triumphs of a newly freed people welcomed by a repentant nation. Instead, black experience at this time is marked by the rise of the KKK, the epidemic of lynching, and the introduction of segregation into American society. This course considers the issues faced by these new American citizens—former slaves historically understood to be chattel and only three-fifths human—and how they strove, in their writing, to express and shape their identity and destiny. IC. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 338.  African American Writing, 1946-Present.  (3) (MPT)
Considers the relationship among literature, freedom, and racial identity as a major preoccupation of black intellectuals and writers, from slave narratives to current post-modern and hip-hop narratives. Black writers give special attention to the significance of race in literature, but does racial identity give a writer a special task as well as perspective? Is a black writer one who happens to be black or does his/her blackness obligate and/or empower this writer to write from a black perspective? And, is this perspective inevitable given the writer’s racial experiences in this country? IC. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 339.  British Romanticism, 1789-1837.  (3) (MPT)
During the age of revolutions, the literary movement we know as Romanticism played a crucial role in representing and shaping the major cultural shifts of the times. With special attention to poetry, the course may consider works by Blake, Byron, Coleridge, Hemans, Keats, Shelley, Smith, and Wordsworth alongside fiction and prose by Austen, Burke, Edgeworth, Hazlitt, Paine, and Scott, with an eye to defining and interrogating the meanings of Romanticism. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
ENG 343.  Victorian Literature, 1837-1901.  (3) (MPT)
During the heyday of the British Empire, Victorian writers responded to and shaped their times. With attention to both poetry and prose, the course will consider major movements in literature in the context of the changing role of women; the emergence of class conflict; the evolution of imperial power; and other major changes in culture and society. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 345.  British Modernism, 1890-1945.  (3) (MPT)
Study of British culture and literature at the end of the Empire; readings include Joseph Conrad, James Joyce, Virginia Woolf, and their contemporaries. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 347.  Postwar/Postcolonial British Literature, 1945-Present.  (3)
Study of British culture and literature in the years when the United Kingdom was relinquishing its colonial possessions and relocating itself in changed global politics; readings by such writers as Julian Barnes, Samuel Beckett, Graham Greene, Jean Rhys, Fay Weldon, and their contemporaries. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 348.  Ethnic American Literatures.  (3)
Intensive introduction to theories of race, ethnicity, and identity through the study of American literature by ethnic minorities. IC. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with AMS.
ENG 349.  Early American Literature.  (3)
Intensive study of issues animating colonial and early national American culture from the period of discovery to the early 19th century, as articulated in selected texts from a variety of literary forms. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 350.  Topics in Film.  (3; maximum 6)
In-depth and concentrated studies in film. Focuses on specific topics in film such as national film traditions (American, Japanese, French, etc.), genres (science fiction, western, detective, etc.), and themes (film and society, women in film, political conspiracy, etc.). May be repeated once when topic changes.Cross-listed with FST.
ENG 351.  Cultural Politics of Gender and Sexuality in Asian/America.  (3)
Intensive interdisciplinary study of imaginative representations of the encounters between "Asia" and "America," broadly conceived, particularly the entangled relations among their diverse constituencies in the contexts of colonialism and globalization. Key topics include feminist critique of gendered violence and human rights issues; Euro-American militarism and sex tourism; the emergence of new categories of sex, gender, and kinship as lived experiences mediated by transnational consumer culture and institutional structures; masculinity and Asian diasporic nationalisms; pan-Asian movements against racism, colonialism, and neoliberalism both in Asia and the U.S.; and the emergence of new critical, artistic and aesthetic practices. IC.Cross-listed with AAA/WGS.
ENG 352.  Antebellum American Literature.  (3)
Intensive study of issues animating American culture from the early 19th century to the end of the Civil War, as articulated in selected texts from a variety of literary forms. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 353.  American Realism and Naturalism.  (3)
Intensive study of issues animating American culture and literature from the Civil War to World War I, as articulated in selected texts from a variety of literary forms. Engages with American realism and naturalism. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 354.  American Modernism.  (3) (MPT)
Intensive study of issues animating American culture between 1914 and 1945, as articulated in selected texts from a variety of literary forms and traditions. Particular focus on American modernism. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 355.  Contemporary American Literature.  (3) (MPT)
Intensive study of issues animating American culture from 1945 to the present as articulated in selected texts from a variety of literary forms and traditions. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 356.  Women and Gender in Film.  (3) (MPF)
This course explores the construction of gender and representations of women in film in two contexts: in mainstream Hollywood cinema and in experimental and independent films. While not providing an extensive history of women in film, the course provides a sampling of iconic films—from early cinema to the present—to critically examine how women are portrayed throughout the twentieth century and in various genres, in films made by both men and women. Course readings engage theoretical and practical points of contact within cinema, including feminist film theory, postcolonial theory, psychoanalysis, queer theory, and critical race theory. IIB, IC. CAS-B.Cross-listed with FST/WGS.
ENG 360.  Interdisciplinary Special Topics.  (1-4; maximum 8)
Study of a selected topic examined from the perspective of two or more disciplines. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 364.  From Marco Polo to Machiavelli.  (3) (MPT)
Examination of Classical and Asian influences in Italian culture from the Middle Ages through the Renaissance. Works of Marco Polo, Dante, Petrarca, Boccaccio, the Italian Humanists, and Renaissance artists and writers, such Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Ariosto, Castiglione, and Machiavelli, including women poets, such as Vittoria Colonna, Gaspara Stampa, and Veronica Franco, are read and discussed against the historical background of Mediterranean trade and culture from the 13th through the 16th century, when the Italian peninsula was a crossroads between Europe, Africa, and Asia. Taught in English. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ITL.
ENG 370.  Introduction to Literary and Cultural Theory.  (3; maximum 6)
Surveys significant movements in recent critical theory, such as formalism, structuralism and poststructuralism, psychoanalysis, Marxism and historicism, feminism, race and ethnic studies, gay and lesbian studies, and cultural studies. Attention also given to applying particular methods to one or to several literary texts. May be repeated once for credit when content changes. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 372.  Shakespeare’s Principal Plays: Early Works.  (3)
Intensive study of Shakespeare's early-career plays, primarily focused on the comedies, histories, and early tragedies, with some attention to stage performance during the golden age of early modern English theater in London. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 373.  Shakespeare’s Principal Plays: Late Works.  (3)
Intensive study of Shakespeare's late-career plays, primarily focused on the "problem plays," late tragedies, and romances, with some attention to stage performance during the golden age of early modern English theater in London. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 374.  English Renaissance Drama.  (3)
Survey of drama from the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries; includes plays by Christopher Marlowe, Ben Jonson, Thomas Middleton, Thomas Dekker, Francis Beaumont, John Fletcher, John Marston, John Ford, and others.
ENG 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ENG 381.  Afro-Brazilian Diaspora Through Film and Arts.  (3)
A focus on questions of gender, race, class and stereotypes in the African Lusophone countries. Taught in English.Prerequisite: any literature course.Cross-listed with POR/BWS/FST.
ENG 383.  Brazilian Women through Literature and Film.  (3) (MPF)
Addresses questions about gender, race, class and stereotype of women's bodies in 20th-century Brazil. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with BWS/POR/WGS/FST.
ENG 386.  Studies in Drama and Performance.  (3)
Examine conventions and traditions in a variety of dramatic forms, such as tragedy, naturalism, expressionism, comedy, the musical, performance art, and the performance of everyday life. Studies also include performance practices such as realism, minstrelsy, drag, distanciation, or devised theatre, with attention to trends and evolving and contested definitions of the genres and the stakes of embodiment and theatrical staging. Course topic varies by section. IC. CAS-B.
ENG 387.  Studies in Poetry.  (3)
Examines conventions and traditions in a variety of poetry. Course topic varies by section. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 388.  Studies in Prose.  (3)
Examines conventions and traditions in a variety of prose forms, such as the novel, short story, flash fiction, magic realism, creative nonfiction, the lyric essay, and the collage essay, with attention to trends and evolving and contested definitions of the genres. Course topic varies by section. CAS-B.
ENG 390.  Studies in American Regionalism.  (3; maximum 6) (MPT)
Literature of the West: imaginative treatments of the American frontier and the postfrontier West, Cooper to the present; major Southern American writers from Byrd to the present. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with AMS.
ENG 399E.  Niche Publish & London Indep.  (3)
Live, work, and study in London for a full 6 weeks with Miami's own Literary London! Our program offers a selection of Literature and Creative Writing courses designed especially to be taught in London by our own Miami faculty. Classes are different every year to take advantage of everything London has to offer. Internships are also available at London-based businesses, including publishing, and many other fields: Add international work experience to your resume while you live and study abroad with us in London.
ENG 401.  Dante's Divine Comedy.  (3) (MPT)
Intensive examination of Dante's major work, The Divine Comedy, read in a bilingual edition. Lectures and discussion in English. No prerequisites. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ITL.
ENG 405.  Advanced Linguistics: The Research Program of Noam Chomsky.  (3) (MPC)
In this Capstone course, students examine the evolving linguistic subfield of generative grammar, pioneered by Noam Chomsky, which revolutionized the study of language and was a primary contributor to the development of the field of cognitive science. Students have the experience of collecting data and identifying patterns within that data, with a goal of forming and testing various hypotheses concerning syntactic rules that allow for construction of a descriptively adequate grammar of a given language and, in a broader sense, construction of a model of the general mental representation of language.Prerequisite: ENG/ATH/GER 219 or equivalent.
ENG 406.  Capstone in Linguistics.  (3) (MPC)
Students work on projects to discover how linguists observe, collect, and analyze language data. Students learn to apply linguistics methodologies to problems about how language shapes our perceptions, how language mediates between people and institutions, or how to develop formal systems that enable computers to parse human sentences. Projects often touch upon concerns of other disciplines.
ENG 407/ENG 507.  Interactive Business Communication.  (3)
Writing and communicating effectively within business contexts, with an emphasis on researching, reporting, proposing, and maintaining relationships using digitally networked interactive technologies.Cross-listed with IMS.
ENG 408/ENG 508.  Second Language Acquisition.  (3)
Topics covered in this course include a historical overview of second language learning and teaching, similarities and differences between childhood and adult language acquisition, the sociocultural and psycholinguistic aspects of learning a new language, and current research in second language acquisition. This course focuses on the adult acquisition of English.
ENG 410.  Selected Topics in Linguistics.  (3; maximum 6)
Focus on a single topic per term, such as field methods, the structure of a a specific language, linguistic geography, sociolinguistics or ethnolinguisitics.Prerequisite: ENG/ATH/GER 219 or equivalent.
ENG 411/ENG 511.  Visual Rhetoric.  (3) (MPT)
Provides an introduction to the theory and techniques of visual rhetoric used by professional communicators. Covers elements of layout, design, and typography, giving students practice with short and longer print texts and non-print media.Cross-listed with IMS.
ENG 412/ENG 512.  Print and Digital Editing.  (3) (MPT)
Examines principles and practices of editors. Preparing communications for publication emphasized. Students edit their own and other students' work, and that of outside clients.
ENG 413/ENG 513.  Grant and Proposal Writing.  (3) (MPT)
Intensive study of the principles and processes involved with preparing grants and proposals.
ENG 414/ENG 514.  Usability and User Experience.  (3) (MPT)
Advanced study of theories and practices of usability connected with the production of documentation in print and digital media.
ENG 415.  Capstone in Professional Writing.  (3) (MPC)
Practicum in theory and practice of project management specifically designed to provide professional writing majors with community-based writing experience and teach communicator/client relationships, problem-solving, and professionalism in conduct and product. Prerequisite: ENG 223.
ENG 416/ENG 516.  Writing for Global Audiences.  (3)
This course focuses on how to write effectively in print and digital media for global audiences. Students will research cross-cultural written communication, including networked communication, and they will develop intercultural literacy skills necessary for writing to global audiences. Through frequent writing assignments, students will learn and enact the theories and strategies for targeting print and digital communications to international and culturally diverse audiences.Cross-listed with IMS.
ENG 417/ENG 517.  Second Language Writing and Reading: Teaching & Theory.  (3)
This course will offer an overview of the growing scope and complexity of scholarship in second language writing over the past half century, and how that scholarship has influenced the development of writing instruction. Reading in a second language and its interactions with writing will also be explored. Students will write about relevant literature, conduct research on teaching practices, and develop a full L2 writing curriculum throughout the semester.
ENG 418/ENG 518.  Playwriting.  (3)
Applied theory, technique, and practice of playwriting.Prerequisite: (THE 418/THE 518 only) THE 101 or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with THE.
ENG 420.  Advanced Creative Writing: Fiction Workshop.  (3; maximum 6)
Study and practice in various forms of creative and imaginative writing with emphasis upon the problems and the craft of fiction. Analysis of examples from contemporary literature accompanies class criticism and discussion.Prerequisite: ENG 320 and permission of instructor.
ENG 422.  Advanced Creative Writing: Screenwriting Workshop.  (3)
Advanced workshop in feature film screenwriting. Analysis of examples of contemporary screenplays, with emphasis on the craft of writing screenplays. Class discussion and sharing of student-written screenplays.Prerequisite: MAC 213 or ENG 320 or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with MAC.
ENG 423.  Advanced Creative Writing: Nonfiction Workshop.  (3; maximum 6)
Study and practice in forms of creative nonfiction with emphasis upon advanced craft issues in the genre. Analysis of examples from contemporary literature accompanies feedback sessions and critical discussion.Prerequisites: ENG 226 and ENG 323.
ENG 424/ENG 524.  Ethics and Digital Media.  (3)
Students will focus on key ethical issues related to online writing, communication, and visual design. Course will introduce key ethical principles, including principles of rhetoric, communication, and design ethics, as well as key principles of professional ethics as articulated in fields like professional writing, technical communication, and graphic design. Topics include intellectual property, access and universal design, privacy and surveillance, visual representation and manipulation, global communication and cultural difference, economic issues of justice and equity, and professional rhetorics.Cross-listed with JRN/IMS.
ENG 426/ENG 526.  Developing & Publishing Digital Books.  (3)
Digital Publishing offers students opportunities to design, edit, and distribute electronic books. Students will learn theories and processes for digital publishing and work with a number of tools and platforms. They will also learn the genres, standards, and literacies required for web-based and ebook production. Students will gain real-world, client-based experience by assisting a non-profit academic press with the development of new ebooks and the digitization of earlier titles.Cross-listed with IMS.
ENG 429/ENG 529.  Environmental Communication.  (3)
Examines theories, principles, and methods for communicating environmental concepts and scientific information verbally, textually and visually to a range of audiences and stakeholders. Students will work with scientists, peer communities, clients, and focus groups to develop effective and appropriate environmental communications across mediums. Projects may include producing scientific posters, writing reviews of research projects on an environmental problem, preparing oral presentations, creating visual story of scientific work, interviewing scientists for a general news story, writing environmental proposals, and facilitating focus groups.Cross-listed with IES/JRN.
ENG 430.  Advanced Creative Writing: Poetry Workshop.  (3; maximum 6)
Practice in writing poetry with emphasis on development of style. Advanced course in the theory and practice of poetry writing with seminar study of relevant contemporary materials and criticism of student work in class and conference.Prerequisite: ENG 330 and permission of instructor.
ENG 432.  Feminism and the Diaspora: U.S. Women of Color.  (3)
Concerns issues of language, history, geography, social-psychology, and culture for U.S. women of color (black, Asian-American, Latina, American Indian, and others). Includes works by and about women on gender, ethnicity, class, sexuality, and other differences. IC.Cross-listed with BWS/WGS.
ENG 435/ENG 535.  Queer Theory.  (3)
Analysis of how gender and sexuality have informed our understandings of cultural texts and contexts. Emphasizes how discourses of gender and sexuality function within a variety of historical, cultural, and/or aesthetic traditions. IC.Cross-listed with WGS.
ENG 437.  Black Feminist Theory.  (3)
This course examines critical and theoretical issues in black feminism from slavery to the present. One of the central goals of the course is to interrogate race, gender, class, and sexuality in the context of black women's thoughts and experiences. The class will read, discuss and analyze a wide variety of texts including critical essays, films, selected fiction, print and visual media. IC.Cross-listed with BWS/WGS.
ENG 440.  Major English and American Writers.  (3; maximum 6) (MPT)
Intensive study of individual major writers in the British and American literary traditions. May be repeated once for credit when content changes. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 450.  Studies in Genre.  (3; maximum 6)
Focused study of issues related to one or more literary genres. Consult the English department course supplement for additional information. May be repeated once for credit when content changes. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 460.  Issues in Creative Writing.  (3) (MPC)
Integrates creative writing in all genres at the highest levels. The issue or problem organizing the course is applicable to all genres; readings illustrate, problematize and/or offer solutions to the issue under discussion. Students read and think as writers and respond to the issue or problem in both an analytic and creative manner. Specific requirements vary according to instructor and topic.Prerequisite: ENG 226, at least two of the required upper-level writing courses, and senior standing.
ENG 470.  Studies in Literary Theory.  (3; maximum 6)
Intensive examination of one or more schools, methods, or significant writers of literary and cultural theory, such as structuralism, poststructuralism, Marxism, and feminism. May be repeated once for credit when content changes. CAS-B-LIT.
ENG 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ENG 480.  English Honors.  (1-6)
Students interested in earning honors in English must confer with associate chair.
ENG 481/ENG 581.  Writing Center Theory and Practice.  (3)
In this intensive course, students study existing scholarship on the theories and practices of writing center work as well as practice various approaches to one-on-one and small-group consultations for multiple and diverse student writers.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
ENG 490.  Special Topics in Literary Study.  (3; maximum 6)
Intensive study of some aspect of contemporary literary study, including such topics as American regional writing, literature of war, or writing by women of color. May be repeated once for credit when content changes. CAS-BLIT.
ENG 494.  Disability in Global and Local Contexts.  (3) (MPC)
Examines contemporary disability issues and policies and the lived experiences of persons with disabilities in international and local contexts, with emphasis on understanding disability within particular communities-both locally and in other countries-and on learning multiple research methods. IC.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.Cross-listed with DST 494 and EDP 489.
ENG 495.  Capstone in Literature.  (3) (MPC)
Intensive study, including reading and independent research. Specific course requirements vary according to instructor and topic, but all Capstones include extensive reading, writing, and discussion. Students read and think as informed readers and respond to issues or problems in an analytic and creative manner. Capstones in literature are selected annually from proposals submitted by faculty.Prerequisite: senior standing.
ENG 600.  Special Topics in Literature.  (2-4; maximum 4)
Study of individual works and types of literature which fall outside traditional areas of study.
ENG 601.  Introduction to Language and Linguistics.  (4)
Basic concepts of language and its use from both historical and contemporary perspectives, with special attention to occasions of use.
ENG 603.  Literary Theories and Their Histories.  (4)
Study of the fundamental perspectives in literary criticism and their application to literary texts.
ENG 604.  OWP/Howe Writing Center Development Workshop.  (1)
Specialized workshop on the theory, development and sustaining of writing center programs in K-12 environments.
ENG 605.  Issues in the Profession.  (2)
Colloquium designed to introduce beginning graduate students to the academic profession, and especially to contemporary debates about the status and variety of literary history.Prerequisite: admission to the graduate program.
ENG 606.  Teaching of College Composition Practicum I.  (2)
Weekly guidance in the teaching of English 111, College Composition, for first-time instructors. Topics include developing writing and group activities, facilitating class discussion of reading, holding effective student-teacher conferences, writing syllabi, and benefitting from observation of one's teaching.
ENG 607.  Teaching Advanced Writing.  (2)
Weekly guidance in the teaching of advanced writing courses for first-time instructors. Topics include creating syllabi and assignments, developing writing and group activities, facilitating class discussions, holding effective student-teacher conferences and peer review/writing workshops, and benefitting from observation of one's teaching.
ENG 608.  Theory & Practice of Teaching Writing Across the University.  (1)
This one-credit-hour seminar introduces graduate students from a variety of disciplines to theory and research about writing and teaching writing within disciplinary courses and programs. The seminar culminates in a project.
ENG 610.  Topics in Literary and Cultural Studies.  (4; maximum 8)
Examination of aesthetic, historical, theoretical issues in literary/cultural studies. Detailed description of topics available from the Director of Graduate Studies.
ENG 615.  TESOL Methods, Materials & Assessment.  (3)
Provides teachers of adult English as a Second Language with the pedagogical tools needed to be effective instructors. Topics covered include a historical overview of TESOL pedagogy, second language learning strategies, choosing materials and designing courses for all four basic language skills, classroom management, and current research in second language assessment.
ENG 616.  TESOL Practicum.  (3)
This course will provide students with the opportunity to observe adult TESOL courses, consult with cooperating ESL teachers, and student-teach ESL classes under the guided supervision of their cooperating teachers. This course may be completed at any of Miami University's campuses which offers adult ESL training.
ENG 620.  Studies in Renaissance Literature.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of selected Renaissance writers such as More, Sidney, Spenser, Marlowe, Jonson, Webster, Bacon, Donne, Milton, and Shakespeare; or of a particular theme such as the courtesy tradition; or of a poetic type such as the Renaissance sonnet or the Renaissance pastoral.
ENG 622.  The Teaching of Writing.  (6)
For certified teachers who wish to learn improved methods of teaching writing in their K-12 classrooms.
ENG 624.  Presenting Teacher Research.  (2)
The course seeks to improve teachers' knowledge and skills regarding the design and delivery of professional presentations.Prerequisite: ENG 622.
ENG 630.  Studies in the Restoration and the 18th Century, 1660-1789.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of selected authors such as Dryden, Pope, Swift, Johnson, Fielding, Goldsmith, and Sheridan, or of a literary group, genre, or style.
ENG 631.  Writing in the Genres: Residential Workshop.  (4; maximum 16)
Study and practice in creative writing, with attention to formal and conceptual concerns. Genre to depend on instructor. Attendance at visiting writers’ talks and readings is expected as part of the course. Emphasis on peer and mentor critiques of student work and on revision of a manuscript, with the goal of producing a portfolio of professional quality creative writing.
ENG 632.  First Non-Residential Semester Low-Residency MFA in Creative Writing.  (5)
Involves an exchange of four writing packets of original work with an on-line mentor. Mentors will respond with detailed critiques of the submitted packets, and students will revise in response to those critiques. In addition, students will read and write responses to 6-8 contemporary and/or canonical texts in their genre.Co-requisite: ENG 631.
ENG 633.  Second Non-Residential Semester in Low-Residency MFA in Creative Writing.  (5)
Involves an exchange of four writing packets of original work with an on-line mentor. Mentors will respond with detailed critiques of the submitted packets, and students will revise in response to those critiques. In addition, students will read and write responses to 6-8 contemporary and/or canonical texts in their genre.Prerequisite: ENG 632.Co-requisite: ENG 631.
ENG 634.  Third Non-Residential Semester Low-Residency MFA in Creative Writing.  (5)
Involves an exchange of four writing packets of original work with an on-line mentor. Mentors will respond with detailed critiques of the submitted packets, and students will revise in response to those critiques.
ENG 635.  Reading for Writing: Literary Forms.  (4)
Analyzing and interpreting literary texts with a focus on issues important for writers, especially craft. Focus changes each term. Criticism as well as creative compositions are produced.
ENG 636.  Fourth Non-Residential Semester in Low-Residency MFA in Creative Writing.  (5)
ENG 636 will be devoted to completing a book-length final project, based upon work begun during the previous three non-residential semesters. During ENG 636, students will work closely with their final project director. Once the final project has been approved by their director and a second faculty member, students will be allowed to conclude their course of study by attending a required fifth 10-day residency, ENG 637, at which time students will give a public reading from their completed final project and help lead a workshop.Prerequisite: ENG 633 and 634.Co-requisite: ENG 631.
ENG 637.  Low-Residency MFA Final Residency.  (0)
An intensive residency required for matriculated members of the Low-Residency MFA program in Creative Writing who have completed all other coursework and whose Final Project has been approved. Highlights include writing workshops focused on student writing, as well as craft lectures and readings by faculty members and distinguished visiting writers. In addition, students in ENG 637 will give a public reading from their Final Project.Prerequisites: ENG 631 and ENG 632.
ENG 640.  Internship.  (0-12; maximum 6)
ENG 641.  Classroom Research I.  (2)
An introduction to classroom research methodology and application.Prerequisite: ENG 622.
ENG 643.  Classroom Research II.  (2)
An introduction to classroom observation methodology and action research.Prerequisite: credited participation in the Teaching of Writing Workshop and Classroom Research I is required for this course.
ENG 647.  Classroom Research III.  (2)
Preparation for classroom observation methodology and action research.Prerequisite: Credited participation in the Teaching of Writing Workshop, Classroom Research I and Classroom Research II are required for this course.
ENG 649.  Classroom Research IV.  (3)
Application of classroom observation methodology and action research.Prerequisite: credited participation in the Teaching of Writing Workshop, Classroom Research I, Classroom Research II, and Classroom Research III are required for this course.
ENG 650.  Studies in 19th-Century English Literature.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of selected 19th century authors such as Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Keats, Thackeray, Dickens, George Eliot, Conrad, Arnold, Browning, and Tennyson, or of a literary group, a genre, or theme.
ENG 651.  Graduate Poetry Workshop.  (4; maximum 16)
Study and practice in writing poetry with attention to the advanced, preprofessional poet's aesthetic, formal and conceptual concerns. Emphasis on group critiquing student work and on revising manuscripts, with the goal of producing a portfolio of professional quality contemporary poetry.Prerequisite: admission to the graduate creative writing program.
ENG 652.  Issues in Creative Writing.  (4)
Analytical and practical approach to selected topics in creative writing. Focus changes each term. Criticism as well as creative compositions are produced.Prerequisite: admission to the graduate creative writing program.
ENG 653.  Implementing Literacy Practices.  (1)
This course is intended for K-12 classroom teachers who are interested in implementing literacy practices learned in professional development with the Ohio Writing Project. As K-12 teachers in Ohio participate in Ohio Writing Project professional development, they will transfer what they learn to their classroom. This workshop will provide resources and strategies that support the implementation of literacy practices designed to increase the quantity and quality of writing and literacy instruction. This course is only offered as part of a credit workshop.
ENG 654.  OWP Reading Contemporary Authors.  (3; maximum 6)
For certified K-12 teachers who wish to explore the processes that students use to gain understanding of a text and the role of contemporary authors in the classroom. With an emphasis on comprehending and responding to a variety of texts, the course seeks to develop the reading and student-centered discussion strategies a teacher can practice in a K-12 classroom. Satisfies three hours of the 15 required elective hours for the Department of English Master of Arts in Teaching English.
ENG 660.  Studies in 20th-Century Literature.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of selected 20th century writers such as Auden, Eliot, Huxley, Joyce, Lawrence, O'Casey, Shaw, Spender, Synge, Woolf, Yeats, or of a literary group, a genre, or a tradition.
ENG 670.  Studies in American Literature, 1800-1865.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of selected pre-Civil War American writers such as Dickinson, Emerson, Hawthorne, Melville, Poe, Thoreau, and Whitman.
ENG 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ENG 680.  Studies in American Literature, 1865-1919.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of selected post-Civil War major American writers such as Stephen Crane, Dreiser, Howells, James, Robinson, and Twain.
ENG 690.  Studies in Modern American Literature, 1919 to Present.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of selected modern major American writers such as Anderson, Hart, Crane, Dos Passos, Eliot, Faulkner, Fitzgerald, Frost, Hemingway, O'Neill, Pound, Steinbeck, and Stevens.
ENG 700.  Research for Master's Thesis.  (1-12; maximum 12)
ENG 704.  Non-Thesis Project.  (0-12; maximum 12)
This repeatable course is for non-thesis culminating experiences. Permission of the instructor is required.
ENG 710.  Intra-disciplinary Seminar in English Studies.  (4; maximum 8)
Advanced study of a topic, integrating approaches from the sub-disciplines of English, including composition/rhetoric, creative writing, and literary studies.
ENG 720.  Issues in Digital Composition.  (4; maximum 12)
Study in one or more of the histories, theories, and practices of composition from the 19th to the 21st centuries.Prerequisite: ENG 731 or equivalent.
ENG 730.  Studies in Composition Research and Pedagogy.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of one or more areas of composition research, theory, or pedagogy such as design, testing and evaluation, discourse theory, history of composition, invention, syntax, style, and composing process.
ENG 731.  The Theory and Practice of Teaching Composition.  (4)
Examination and evaluation of current methods and strategies for teaching college writing with emphasis on classroom application of composition theory and research. Major topics include composing process, invention, argumentation, the sentence and the paragraph, testing and evaluation, recent research in composition, reading and writing, and composition and literature. Summer only.Prerequisite: graduate standing.
ENG 732.  Histories and Theories of Composition.  (4)
Study in one or more of the histories, theories, and practices of composition from the 19th to the 21st centuries.
ENG 733.  Histories and Theories of Rhetoric.  (4)
Historical review of major figures and theories of rhetoric up to the late 20th century.
ENG 735.  Empirical Research Methods in Composition.  (4)
Introduction to methods of qualitative and quantitative research in the study of writing.Prerequisite: ENG 731 or equivalent.
ENG 737.  Contemporary Theories of Rhetoric.  (4)
Focus on major figures and theories of rhetoric in the 20th and 21st centuries.
ENG 750.  Histories and Methodologies in Literary and Cultural Studies.  (4; maximum 8)
Practicum centering on an area of contemporary theory/critical practice that students integrate with their interests. Required for literature doctoral students, who may take the course again when topic changes; suggested for Masters' students intending to pursue doctoral work. Detailed description of scheduled topics available from the Director for Graduate Studies.Prerequisite: ENG 603 or equivalent.
ENG 751.  Special Problems.  (1-6; maximum 6)
Special research study in a topic not covered in a regular course, usually culminating in an essay of the kind found in literary journals. Application for this course must be made by the 14th week of the previous semester or by the end of the first week of new semester, and approved by departmental committee.
ENG 760.  Special Topics in Rhetoric.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of one or more specialized areas or elements of rhetoric--such as ethnic/comparative, feminist, religious, or disability rhetorics; rhetoric of the public sphere; or ancient and modern rhetorical theories of invention.
ENG 770.  Issues in Professional Writing.  (4; maximum 12)
Intensive study of one or more elements of professional or technical communication, intellectual property, the production and analysis of print and digital genres, usability and other writing research methodologies, and workplace, global, and mobile communication. Emphasis on theory, research, and practice.
ENG 780.  Internship in English Studies.  (1-4; maximum 12)
Internship in practical applications of English Studies, such as editing, digital design, digital curation, and technical writing.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
ENG 850.  Research for Doctoral Dissertation.  (1-16)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel