Fashion (FAS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Fashion (FAS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Fashion (FAS)
Fashion (FAS)
FAS 101.  Introduction to the Fashion Industry.  (3)
Presentation of various aspects of the fashion and textile industry, jobs in the industry, fashion industry research, possible field trip to apparel manufacturing facility.
FAS 150.  Fashion Sprint Special Topics.  (1.5-6; maximum 6)
Various special introductory topics in Fashion will be offered with no prerequisites.
FAS 201.  Apparel Construction Techniques.  (3)
The basic principles of garment construction: cutting, sewing, fitting, pressing and finishing garments. This is a making course, with emphasis on professional design studio practices.
FAS 211.  Draping for Fashion Design.  (3)
Basic principles of three-dimensional designing and patternmaking.Prerequisites: FAS 201 or (ART 145 and ART 146), or permission of instructor.
FAS 212.  Flat Pattern Drafting for Fashion Design.  (3)
Basic principles of patternmaking, including: drafting a set of basic patterns, developing various styles, constructing and testing muslin samples, finalizing production-ready patterns, grading patterns into various sizes.Prerequisites: FAS 201 or (ART 145 and ART 146), or permissionl of instructor.
FAS 221.  Textiles for the Fashion Industry.  (3)
Identifying and analyzing apparel fabrics, yarns, and fibers, both man-made and natural, including construction, finishes, and other properties. Developing an understanding of the factors that influence the tactile qualities and performance of fabrics during garment design, manufacture, and wear.
FAS 241.  The Elements and Principles of Fashion Design, including Color Theory.  (3)
Presentation of the vocabulary of the elements of design, such as line, shape, color, etc, and the principles of design, such as unity, harmony, balance, proportion and rhythm. Practice of drawing designs using these elements and principles effectively.
FAS 281.  Contemporary Fashion History of 20th-21st Century.  (3) (MPF)
Beginning with the Industrial Revolution and continuing to 2010, this course provides an in-depth study of prominent fashion designs, designers. and the global influences that represent each era, as well as the psychological, social, and economic events that have shaped contemporary fashion. This course addresses the concept of historic continuity in fashion by examining the repetition of dress styles from ancient cultures to the appropriation of dress elements from non-Western sources. The course analyzes the influence of Asian, Middle Eastern, African, and South American culture on contemporary Western dress and includes the examination of garments from the Miami Historic Costume Collection and the Miami Art Museum. IIA, IIB.
FAS 332.  Fashion Illustration.  (3)
Fashion Illustration introduces the sketching techniques used to create the fashion figure and to illustrate fashion design silhouettes and fabric treatments.
FAS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
FAS 341.  Junior Fashion Studio.  (3)
The Junior Fashion Studio will build upon the knowledge and skills acquired from FAS 201 Apparel Construction, FAS 211 Fashion Draping, and FAS 212 Flat Pattern Drafting. Students will design and create an original fashion design collection.Prerequisites: FAS 201, FAS 211, and FAS 212 or permission of instructor.
FAS 360.  Fashion and Digital Tools.  (3)
Fashion and Digital Tools will include instruction and practice in technical fashion drawing, both by hand and digitally.
FAS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
FAS 441.  Senior Fashion Studio.  (3)
The Senior Fashion Studio will build upon the knowledge and skills acquired from FAS 201 Apparel Construction, FAS 211 Fashion Draping, FAS 212 Flat Pattern Drafting, and FAS 341 Junior Fashion Studio. Students will design and create an advanced original fashion design collection suitable for fashion show presentation.Prerequisites: FAS 201, FAS 211, FAS 212 and FAS 341 or permission of instructor.
FAS 442.  Fashion Portfolio.  (2)
Development of a professional portfolio package, including documentation of student's original creative work in hard copy and digital format, and creation of a logo, resume, and cover letter. FAS 441 can be taken concurrently.Prerequisites: FAS 101, FAS 201, FAS 211, FAS 212, FAS 241 (or equivalent substitution), FAS 332, FAS 341, FAS 360, or by permission of instructor.
FAS 450.  Advanced Special Topics in Fashion.  (3; maximum 6)
Topical offerings for juniors and seniors focusing on emerging and/or established topics in fashion, such as fashion retail environments, fashion retail internationalization, or fashion business models.
FAS 451.  Fashion Retail Planning and Buying.  (3)
Retail buyer’s role in merchandise management: decision making, planning, allocating, controlling, negotiating, buying, and pricing. Analysis and synthesis of merchandising management practices and problems in fashion and retail contexts.
FAS 463.  Fashion Trend Forecasting.  (3)
Fashion trend forecast development and use across all segments of the fashion industry; apply theories and forecasting methods to develop fashion forecast.
FAS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel