German (GER) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
German (GER)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·German (GER)
German (GER)
GER 101.  Beginning German.  (4)
Basic grammar and development of reading, speaking, writing, and listening skills. For students with no prior study of German.
GER 102.  Beginning German.  (4)
Basic grammar and development of reading, speaking, writing, and listening skills.Prerequisite: GER 101 or placement test.
GER 103L.  Practical German Language.  (3)
The goal of GER 103L is to expose students to and to develop basic language skills in German in order to enable them to conduct simple exchanges in a German language environment. This course is aimed at MUDEC students who do not intend to continue German in their university studies while having to fulfill the language requirement of MUDEC.
GER 111.  Review of Basic German.  (3)
Covers same material as GER 101 and GER 102; for students with prior study of German. Upon completion of GER 111, students enroll in GER 201. Credit earned in GER 101 and/or 102 is considered duplication of credit.
GER 151.  The German-American Experience.  (3) (MPF)
Explores the role that America's largest ethnic group has played in the history and culture of the United States. Topics include German settlements in Colonial America, the Eighteen-Forty-Eighters, and German-Americans in Hollywood. IC, IIB. CAS-B.
GER 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GER 201.  Second Year German.  (3) (MPT)
Comprehensive grammar review. Course material includes written and/or broadcast texts. Discussions and compositions in German.Prerequisite: GER 102 or 111; or placement test.
GER 202.  Second Year German.  (3) (MPT)
Emphasizes comprehension of written and spoken German. Course material includes written and/or broadcast texts. Discussions and compositions in German.CAS-A.Prerequisite: GER 201 or placement test.
GER 219.  Introduction to Linguistics.  (3) (MPF)
Scope of linguistics: fundamental concepts and methods of linguistic science (phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics) in its descriptive and historical aspects. V. CAS-E.Cross-listed with ATH/ENG.
GER 231.  Folk and Literary Fairy Tales.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to the principles of folklore studies. Close reading of all 210 tales in the Grimms' collection, and a survey of literary fairy tales from Goethe to Hesse and Kafka. Emphasis in the second half of the course is on the way literary tales use folklore motifs. Readings and discussion in English. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
GER 232.  The Holocaust in German Literature, History, and Film.  (3) (MPF)
Critical reading, reflection, and discussion of Holocaust representations. Introduction to historical and political context and survey of debates surrounding memory culture. Examination of fiction, autobiographical writing, historical texts, and film with a focus on German-language sources. Taught in English. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B.
GER 252.  The German-Jewish Experience.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Discusses readings of and about major Jewish figures in the German-speaking world. Frames historical background. Discover constants and changes over time. Assesses terms for analyzing culture. In English. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.
GER 260.  Topics in German Literature in Translation.  (3; maximum 12)
Introduction to issues in German literature. Knowledge of German not required. CAS-B-LIT.
GER 261.  German Film in Global Context.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Traces the dynamic development of German speaking cinema from 1895 to the present within a global context that defines filmmaking beyond national borderlines. The global context is determined by the international spread and commonality of: 1) technological innovations (camera, lighting, and sound systems, editing techniques); 2) commercial practices (of production, collaboration, distribution, exhibition), 3) political influences (the interplay of film, war, and ideology), and 4) aesthetic trends (the international popularity of certain genres, formal devices, and specific cultural preferences).The course is taught in English and all the films have English subtitles. IIB, IIIB, IC. CAS-B.Cross-listed with FST.
GER 272.  Cinemas and Cultures of Central and Eastern Europe.  (3)
Analyses the developments and trends in the cinemas and cultures in Central and Eastern Europe from 1945 to the present; reflects on the definition of filmmaking beyond national concepts. Global context is determined by the theoretical exploration of: 1) the geopolitical region of Germany as well as Central and Eastern Europe in dialog with Western Europe and the world; 2) cultural practices related to identity formation and aesthetic perception; 3) film production and reception among domestic and international audiences; and 4) the interplay of film cultures in the Cold War. Taught in English and all films have English subtitles. IIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with FST/RUS.
GER 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GER 301.  German Language Through the Media.  (3) (MPT)
German language and cultural studies using media such as films, television, newspaper and magazine articles, and Internet sources. Taught in German. Completion of GER 202 or equivalent (with permission of instructor.)
GER 311.  Passionate Friendships in German Literature from the Middle Ages to the Present.  (3) (MPT)
Examines how intimate relationships between individuals, the bonds of love and friendship, intersect with and are shaped by social expectation, cultural taboos, and historical events. The theme is developed chronologically, from the Middle Ages to the present, emphasizing specific issues of conflict between individual desires and social norms. Texts include prose, poetry, plays, essays, interviews, and films. Primary readings, written assignments, and discussions are in German. CAS-B-LIT.
GER 312.  Coming of Age in German Life and Thought.  (3) (MPT)
Explores short and long texts as well as excerpts from works by some of the leading authors of German literature. The intertwined themes of personal, social, political, and national maturation will guide this exploration. Lectures and discussions are in German. CAS-B-LIT.
GER 321.  Cultural Topics in German-Speaking Europe Since 1870.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Explores several major cultural foci within the German, Austrian, and/or Swiss experience. Readings, discussions, guided research projects predominantly in German. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
GER 322.  Comparative Study of Everyday Culture: German-Speaking Europe and the U.S.A..  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Explores patterns of everyday life in German-speaking European culture and compares them with similar cultural patterns in contemporary U.S. life. Lectures, readings, and discussions in German. IC, IIB, IIC, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.
GER 350.  Topics in Contemporary Writing - German.  (1-3)
Explores current issues of German-speaking societies in contemporary as well as historical contexts.
GER 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GER 386.  Art of the Weimar Republic.  (3)
This class will trace developments in painting, photography, film, and architecture in Germany from 1918-1933. We will focus on connections between art and the historical and political events of this particularly turbulent time in Germany history. Artists to be studied include: Walter Gropius, Mies van der Rohe, Fritz Lang, Hannah Hoch, Georg Grosz, August Sander, and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy. Relevant artistic movements include: Expressionism, Dada, the Bauhaus, and New Objectivity.Cross-listed with ART.
GER 410/GER 510.  Topics in German Language, Literature, and Culture.  (3; maximum 9)
This course focuses on a topic or problem established by instructor. Students investigate the topic through engagement with original documents, literary works, films, and works of art. In German. CAS-B-LIT.
GER 461.  Germany Milestones in the 20th Century.  (3)
An exploration of German life in the twentieth century, using film as the chief medium, and drawing upon other cultural artifacts to provide additional perspectives. Taught in German.
GER 471.  Linguistic Perspectives on Contemporary German.  (3) (MPC)
The interaction of social factors and language in the development of the standard language of German, Austria and Switzerland throughout history until the present.
GER 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GER 480.  Department Honors.  (1-6; maximum 6)
Department honors may be taken for a minimum of three semester hours and a maximum total of six semester hours in senior year. Permission of instructor and department required.
GER 610.  Self-Paced Graduate Reading Course in German.  (1-6)
Prepares students pursuing advanced degrees in other departments to read German in their fields of study. Individualized format offers flexibility in scheduling, pace, and text selection.Prerequisite: graduate standing; seniors planning graduate study may seek permission of instructor.
GER 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GER 680.  Independent Studies.  (1-6)
Independent study in German language and literature.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel