Global & Intercultural Studies (GIC) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Global &​ Intercultural Studies (GIC)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Global & Intercultural Studies (GIC)
Global & Intercultural Studies (GIC)
GIC 101.  Global and Intercultural Studies.  (3) (MPF)
An interdisciplinary approach to global and intercultural dynamics and issues. Examines historical and contemporary transnational perspectives to understand processes of globalization in an age of global social responsibility. IIB, IIC, IIIB.CAS-B, CAS-C.
GIC 228.  Cuba In Transition.  (6) (MPF)
Takes place in Cuba during winter term and identifies and expands students’ understanding of contemporary Cuba. Both online assignments and field work in Cuba will draw on several themes ranging from pre and post- revolutionary Cuban history, domestic and international politics, Cuba’s socialist economic model, an alternative approach to education, sustainable agriculture, Cuban art, religious practices, and U.S.-Cuba shared cultural experiences, including baseball and appreciation of Ernest Hemingway’s literature and life in Cuba. Additionally, students will learn how categories of analysis such as race, class, and gender have evolved in Cuba over time. Taught during winter term only. IIIB, IC.
GIC 286.  Data, Ethics, and Society.  (3)
A historical, cultural, and philosophical introduction to key ethical and political problems in a world increasingly saturated with data. Examines rapidly changing and disquieting issues such as privacy and surveillance, intellectual property, and identity. Addresses the ethical issues that may arise from data collection, production, management, and use in scientific study, policy development, social justice debates, and economic applications. Students will develop critical skills to reflect upon, evaluate, and navigate issues they may encounter in a variety of environments impacted by data. CAS-B.Prerequisites: STA/ISA 125 or STA 261 or STA 301.Cross-listed with HST 286/PHL 286.
GIC 301.  Approaches to Global and Intercultural Studies: Globalization and Belonging.  (3) (MPF)
This course provides an interdisciplinary examination of how “we” and “they” are shaped in the context of heightened globalization. Specifically, how are citizenship, nationhood, ethnicity and race being imagined in an increasingly inter-connected world, and with what implications for democracy, social justice, and human rights. The U.S. provides foundational examples, but comparisons will be drawn from cases in Latin America, Europe, and Southern Africa. IIB, IIC, IIIB, IC. CAS-B or CAS-C.
GIC 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
GIC 360.  Topics in Global and Intercultural Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
Examines specific topics through frameworks of global and intercultural studies.Prerequisites: 32 credit hours or more.
GIC 421/GIC 521.  Critical Race and Post-Colonial Studies.  (3)
Utilizes critical sociology (intersectionality, critical race, and post-colonial theory) to investigate how race and social structures interact over time both within the U.S. and globally. Specifically the course examines the theories, research and policy associated with intersectional identities of race, class, gender, place and context. Finally, it investigates the role of intersectionality in (re)producing systems of inequality, privilege, and how they can be transformed. IIIB, IC.Prerequisites: CRE 151, GIC 101, SJS 165 or SOC 151.Cross-listed with SOC 421/SOC 521.
GIC 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GIC 487.  Globalization, Social Justice and Human Rights.  (3) (MPF)
This course explores the theories, issues, debates, and pedagogy associated with globalization, social justice, and human rights. The course provides students with a unique opportunity to explore these topics within the classroom and, via internet and other technologies, across classrooms located around the globe. The student, through collaborative projects with peers around the world, will reflect upon how globalization shapes and transforms local communities and national cultures. IIIB, IC. CAS-C.Prerequisites: GIC 101, SOC 151 or SOC 153, or SOC/SJS 165.Cross-listed with SJS/SOC.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel