Japanese (JPN) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Japanese (JPN)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Japanese (JPN)
Japanese (JPN)
JPN 101.  First Year Japanese.  (4)
Acquisition of the basic oral-aural skills of elementary Japanese as well as the reading and writing skills.
JPN 102.  First Year Japanese.  (4)
Acquisition of the basic oral-aural skills of elementary Japanese as well as the reading and writing skills.Prerequisite: JPN 101 or equivalent.
JPN 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
JPN 201.  Second Year Japanese.  (3) (MPT)
Further development of the fundamental skills of speaking, listening, writing, and reading in Japanese.Prerequisite: JPN 102 or equivalent.
JPN 202.  Second Year Japanese.  (3) (MPT)
Further development of the fundamental skills of speaking, listening, writing, and reading in Japanese. CAS-A.Prerequisite: JPN 201 or equivalent.
JPN 231.  Japanese Tales of the Supernatural in English Translation.  (3) (MPF)
Focusing on the supernatural, this course examines major literary works chronologically, Tale of Genji (ca. 1010), to contemporary films. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
JPN 255.  Drama in China and Japan in English Translation.  (3) (MPF)
Provides historical overview of major traditional dramatic art forms of China and Japan: Zaju, Kunqu, Peking Opera, Noh, Kyogen, Bunraku, and Kabuki. Critically treats and interprets theatrical conventions in each and attempts to clarify aesthetic significance. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with CHI.
JPN 260.  Topics in Japanese Literature in English Translation.  (3; maximum 9)
Treatment of selected works of Japanese literature that suggest a particular theme, such as Death. CAS-B-LIT.
JPN 266.  Survey of Japanese Cinema.  (3)
This course examines representative Japanese films from the movies of the immediate postwar era to the new wave of Japanese anime (animated films).Cross-listed with FST 266.
JPN 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
JPN 301.  Third Year Japanese.  (3) (MPT)
Emphasis on advanced oral and written communication in Japanese, while learning about important concepts in modern Japanese society through reading and discussion.Prerequisite: JPN 202 or equivalent.
JPN 302.  Third Year Japanese.  (3)
Emphasis on advanced oral and written communication in Japanese, while learning about important concepts in modern Japanese society through reading and discussion.Prerequisite: JPN 301 or equivalent.
JPN 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
JPN 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
JPN 381.  Introduction to Japanese Linguistics.  (3)
Provides a deeper understanding of the characteristics of the Japanese language, using the framework of theoretical linguistics as an analytical tool.Prerequisite: JPN 102.
JPN 401.  Fourth Year Japanese.  (3)
Development of advanced command of Japanese in comprehension and production through written works and class discussion. Cultural, social, and psychological implications, literary works, contemporary articles, etc., will also be explored.Prerequisite: JPN 302 or equivalent.
JPN 402.  Fourth Year Japanese.  (3)
Development of advanced command of Japanese in comprehension and production through written works and class discussion. Cultural, social, and psychological implications, literary works, contemporary articles, etc., will also be explored.Prerequisite: JPN 401 or equivalent.
JPN 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
JPN 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel