Luxembourg (LUX) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Luxembourg (LUX)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Luxembourg (LUX)
Luxembourg (LUX)
LUX 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
LUX 325.  Study Tour Component.  (1)
The required study tour 1-credit course provides the field trip component attached to required Base Courses of the Dolibois European Center. It is each time linked to a specific course.
LUX 335.  European Experience.  (1)
The European Experience course is designed to present and self-assess the learning experience of students attending the program of Miami University John E. Dolibois European Center through a portfolio of experiences and accomplishments, whether direct (such as participating to lectures or organizing events) or indirect (such as publishing wikis or blog posts). It emphasizes engagement in the community, reflection on personal growth, and appreciation for diverse perspecctives during a study abroad experience. It helps students develop a personal narrative on an experience that is both individual and collective. The purpose of the European Experience course is a systematic self assessment of a study abroad experience and is intended to help student formalize their time abroad in a narrative that will develop their awareness of the outcomes and benefits of their experience abroad.
LUX 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
LUX 345.  Luxembourg: European Context.  (1)
MUDEC's experience in Luxembourg is unanimously praised by students. However, MUDEC offers no course that deepens the student experience through an academic understanding of the context in which they are living. Miami University chose the Grand Duchy as the site of its European Center because of its geographic location in the heart of Western Europe. The history and culture of the Grand Duchy are closely linked to that of Europe, from ancient, medieval and modern times to the present day. In the contemporary world, Luxembourg, despite its small size (999 square miles) and a population of only 540,000, plays an important role in European politics. This wider European dimension, both past and present, forms the central focus of this course.
LUX 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel