Marketing (MKT) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Marketing (MKT)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Marketing (MKT)
Marketing (MKT)
MKT 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MKT 211.  Business Concepts in Customer Engagement.  (3)
A business concepts course for students in majors and minors outside of the Farmer School of Business. The course content has been specifically designed to focus on critical areas of the customers' experiences in and with organizations. Concepts from courses in Consumer Behavior, Service Delivery, and Personal Selling will be used to examine the Customer Engagement Process. The course will be taught in three modules.
MKT 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MKT 291.  Principles of Marketing.  (3) (MPT)
Factors involved in the management of the marketing function relative to product development, promotion, pricing, physical distribution, and determination of marketing objectives within the framework of the marketing system and in domestic and international markets.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: ECO 201.
MKT 292.  Careers In Marketing.  (1)
Survey course dealing with possible careers in marketing. Focus is on self assessment, building a resume portfolio and career objectives. Over half of the classes will involve practitioner panels and discussions. Credit/No Credit only.Co-requisite: MKT 291.
MKT 301.  Strategic Thinking and Decision-Making in Marketing.  (3)
Strong strategic thinking skills are needed to effectively set goals, analyze the marketing and external environment, anticipate the unexpected, and develop long-range plans. This course will enhance students’ ability to think strategically, use creative thinking and processes to approach marketing problems and opportunities from multiple perspectives, employ strategic decision-making frameworks, tools, and capabilities to solve complex marketing challenges, and communicate strategic decisions and rationale to stakeholders.Prerequisite: MKT 291.
MKT 325.  Developing Customer Insights.  (3) (MPT)
Successful marketers need to (a) understand their customers’ needs, motivations, attitudes, decision-making, and behaviors, and (b) use their understanding to generate insights that drive marketing strategies. This course is designed to help students develop an understanding of the skills, processes, and concepts necessary to generate meaningful and actionable customer insights. Students will gain hands-on experience with insight development techniques and learn to translate generated insights into actionable marketing recommendations.Prerequisite: MKT 291.
MKT 335.  Analytical Research and Reasoning for Marketers.  (3) (MPT)
Marketing in today’s environment with numerous large and real-time data sets requires new analytic skills. This class focuses on analytical research methods utilized by marketers to better understand the markets in which they compete; the categories, competition, channels and consumers that comprise their risks and growth opportunities. Students will be equipped to move at the speed of data availability, address complexity and ambiguities in information, quickly respond with research analyses and develop actionable conclusions with recommendations.Prerequisites: ISA 225 and MKT 291.
MKT 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
Available to Farmer School of Business (FSB) majors and minors. Available for 0 credit hour during spring, summer and fall terms. Available for 1 credit hour during summer terms only. For one hour of credit, student must secure a sponsoring FSB faculty member within his/her major or minor to supervise the internship and accompanying required internship reflection paper. MKT 340 is not available during winter term. Students are to work through their respective academic departments to enroll in the course. Credit/no credit only. Note: FSB students may earn a maximum 2 credit hours toward graduation for BLS/BUS/ECO/ESP/FIN/ISA/MGT/MKT 340.Prerequisite: 55 earned hours and permission of department.
MKT 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MKT 405.  Professional Selling.  (3) (MPT)
A fundamental aspect of business is selling – whether it is an idea, product, service, or point of view. This course focuses on the role of personal selling and customer relationship management in business, including how salespeople carry out their boundary spanning responsibilities to their organization and customers.Prerequisite: MKT 291.
MKT 412.  Sustainable Marketing Management.  (3)
The goal of this course is to provide an overview of the role of sustainability in marketing strategy. We use the triple bottom line perspective to cast sustainability as the simultaneous pursuit of financial, social/relational, and environmental performance. The course provides an assessment of current efforts to pursue sustainability with a primary focus on the interaction of the marketing organization with the environment. In the process, we investigate the interaction between consumption and the physical environment. We examine specific marketing tactics employed by firms seeking to maximize triple bottom line performance. We subsequently address consumption processes in the household, industrial, services, and transportation sectors of the economy.Prerequisite: MKT 291.
MKT 415.  Marketing to Organizations.  (3) (MPT)
Introduces the nature and functions of marketing between businesses and business/government in terms of structure, buyer behavior, processes, supply chain management, information flows and the marketing mix.Prerequisite: MKT 291.
MKT 419/MKT 519.  Digital Branding.  (3) (MPT)
Survey course emphasizing a hands-on immersion into ECommerce; studies the impact this technology has on the basics of the marketing mix and effective and efficient marketing strategies. Focuses on applications, innovations, and future direction (not on the technology that enables the Internet and www). Heavy reading, electronic and in-class discussions, and 'surfing' required. Recommended prerequisite: MKT 291.Cross-listed with IMS.
MKT 425.  Global Marketing.  (3)
This course will provide students with an overview and understanding of global marketing. This involves an analysis of world markets, their respective consumers and environments, and the marketing management required to meet the demands of constantly changing foreign markets.Prerequisite: MKT 291.
MKT 435.  Building and Managing Strong Brands.  (3) (MPT)
This course is designed to teach students how to build and manage seamless brand experiences in an increasingly complex media environment. It provides students with conceptual frameworks and specific skills relevant to branding and brand management. Students will learn how to measure brand value, how to manage social media platforms, how to create branding synergistic effects through integration of traditional and digital media, and how to measure and optimize branding efforts.Prerequisite: MKT 291.
MKT 442.  Highwire Brand Studio.  (4-8) (MPC)
Multidisciplinary practicum involving students from marketing, graphic design and other relevant majors. Three competing, multi-disciplinary student teams work for a semester on an actual client's current brandings and marketing communications challenge. Campaign solutions typically include primary research and market analysis, campaign strategy development and graphic design for advertising and other sales support materials. Incorporates contemporary technology and industry standard materials and research. Expertise and facilities of marketing, graphic design and other relevant majors are fully integrated within each team. Each campaign is formally presented to the client at the end of the semester.Prerequisite: MKT 435 or permission of instructor.
MKT 461.  Principles of Retailing.  (3)
TS Survey of retail management issues impacting effective last mile customer service in contemporary product and service retailing; includes topics such as retail channels, retail mix, retail market strategy, financial strategy, ethics, location, trading area and site analysis, store design/environment, visual merchandising, merchandise assortments and budgets, and store operations.Prerequisite: MKT 291.
MKT 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MKT 490.  Emerging Topics in Marketing.  (1-4; maximum 6)
This course focuses on a significant emerging topic in the marketing field. The course itself may take the form of a lecture, seminar, practicum, or individual study depending on the topic.Prerequisite: MKT 291 or permission of instructor.
MKT 490D.  Careers in Consulting.  (1)
This class prepares students for careers in consulting. It focuses on the different types of consulting companies and how to prepare and interview for the jobs. Part of the preparation is learning to solve case problems and concentrating on communication and math skills necessary to interview successfully.
MKT 495.  Strategy Works.  (4) (MPC)
This marketing strategy practicum will provide students an opportunity to integrate and apply marketing planning and strategic concepts to real-world problems while developing skills in teamwork, written and oral communication, critical thinking, and quantitative and qualitative analysis.Prerequisites: MKT 291, MGT 291 and FIN 301.
MKT 618.  Marketing Management.  (3)
Focuses on business's front lines; the value creation from which all economic activity derives. Address how sellers identify, manage, and meet customer needs and wants through concepts, heuristics, models, and frameworks that help stimulate and manage customer-centric organizations. Leverage a mix of current readings and case analyses to bring cutting edge thinking and applications to life.
MKT 622.  Creativity, Innovation & Problem Solving in Marketing.  (3)
Participants will learn to meet the demand for rapid, creative solutions to ever-changing business challenges. Addresses creativity stimulation within both individuals and teams by building a toolbox of techniques that participants apply to problems commonly arising in marketing and business. Included are topics such as (1) problem definition (e.g., too narrow vs. too broad), (2) the need for multiple perspectives (e.g., core competency vs. core rigidity), (3) methods for stimulating idea generation (e.g., empathic design), and methods for evaluating ideas and their potential profitability (e.g., conjoint).Prerequisite: MKT 618.
MKT 632.  Information Network Marketing.  (3)
This course surveys the digital marketing landscape including its fringes, examining opportunities and threats driven by advances on the network frontier. The student will develop a set of critical skills so that she/he is better able to evaluate and find opportunity when presented with new technologies throughout their career. Understanding how to approach these advances is a critical skill for a marketer in today's environment.Prerequisites: MKT 618 and ISA 621.
MKT 633.  Digital Marketing.  (1)
Students will gain hands-on experience managing an actual digital marketing campaign for a real client. This will include creating, executing and optimizing a campaign on a live advertising platform. Over the course of the campaign, students will develop an understanding of online consumer behavior, real-time marketing, online brand building, and social media strategy. Deliverables will include a pre-campaign strategy brief and a post-campaign analysis.Prerequisite: MKT 618.
MKT 635.  Branding and Brand Equity Management.  (3)
Theory and practice of brand equity management in consumer and business-to-business environments. Topics include brand equity models, brand audits, brand equity leveraging and brand portfolio management. Significant emphasis is also placed on the theory and practice of integrated marketing communications.Prerequisite: MKT 618.
MKT 640.  Internship.  (0-12; maximum 6)
MKT 645.  Marketing Analytics for the Executive.  (3)
Marketing decisions have always been rooted in data. However, over the past decade more and more data has become available to marketers. This course details the analysis measures and methods used by leading marketers to make more precise marketing decisions in the 21st century.Prerequisite: MKT 618.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel