Nonprofit and Community Studies (NCS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Nonprofit and Community Studies (NCS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Nonprofit and Community Studies (NCS)
Nonprofit and Community Studies (NCS)
NCS 201.  Theories of Civic Leadership and Democracy.  (3)
Critical introduction to the study of community, democracy, and civic leadership. Draws widely from several scholarly fields (including political science, philosophy, economics, international development and civic engagement), placing particular emphasis on the various ways that scholars and practitioners conceptualize "community" and "democracy" and the ways that theories of democratic citizenship can inform the actions and practices of individuals, leaders, and groups within communities.
NCS 202.  Introduction to Nonprofits and NGOs.  (3)
Overview of the history, organization, and functions of nonprofits and NGOs, one of the largest sectors of the United State workforce. Visiting professionals from community agencies provide local connections and context, and service-learning experience allows students to engage and learn in additional environments.
NCS 270.  Special Topics in Community Studies.  (1-6; maximum 9)
An examination of a contemporary problem/issue in community studies through some combination of research, readings, discussion, and experiential learning. Topics will vary according to need and interest. This class may be repeated for credit provided different topics are studied.
NCS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
NCS 301.  Community-Based Practicum I.  (3)
Placement with an appropriate community or government agency where students apply their skills and learn new ones. Preparatory classroom component, regular reflection assignments, and community project required.Prerequisite: NCS 202.
NCS 302.  Community-Based Practicum II.  (3)
Placement with an appropriate community or government agency where students apply their skills and learn new ones. Preparatory classroom component, regular reflection assignments, and community project required.Prerequisite: NCS 301.
NCS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
NCS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
NCS 401.  Capstone in Nonprofit and Community Studies.  (3) (MPT, MPC)
Focuses on the production of a senior project in collaboration with an appropriate community partner. As part of the Global Miami Plan, it emphasizes sharing of ideas, synthesis, and critical, informed action and reflection, and includes student initiative in defining and investigating problems or projects. Culminates in a public presentation for community and university members. IC.Prerequisite: 96 hours registered or earned (senior standing).
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel