Psychological Science (PSS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Psychological Science (PSS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Psychological Science (PSS)
Psychological Science (PSS)
PSS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
PSS 211.  Career Development in Psychology & Related Social Sciences.  (3)
What can you do with a degree in Psychological Science, Psychology, or a related Social Science major? Whether you plan to enter directly into the workforce after college or continue in graduate school in psychological science or a related field, this course will help you to explore careers, design a vocational plan, set goals, and develop strategies to make you ready for your professional life after college. Helping you develop professional competencies, this course will look at three key areas for you to focus upon while you are an undergraduate student: the ATTITUDE you need to have toward your studies, the KNOWLEDGE you need to be competitive, and the SKILLS you should attain to be marketable.Cross-listed with ASO 211.
PSS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
PSS 301.  Introduction to Industrial and Organizational Psychology.  (3)
Introduction to basic topics in industrial and organizational psychology, including human resources, worker productivity and satisfaction, motivation, leadership, organizations, and job analysis.Prerequisite: PSY 111 or equivalent, PSY 294 OR ASO 301.
PSS 312.  Drugs and Behavior.  (3)
This course covers the principles of drug actions in the nervous system and describes the effects of drugs on behavior. Focus is given to drugs that are commonly used in recreational and clinical settings.Prerequisites: PSY 111, PSY 251 AND PSY 294 OR ASO 301.
PSS 315.  Learning, Memory, and Behavior.  (3)
This course is an empirical and theoretical examination of the processes of learning, memory, and behavior, including the origin and history of concepts and theories in learning and memory. For learning, the focus will be on habituation, classical and operant conditioning, and behaviorist approaches. Although most of the research findings will come from animal experiments, the relevance of these findings and concepts to understanding human behavior will be discussed. For memory, the focus will be on human memory, cognition, and attention. Students will be introduced to artificial intelligence, neural networks, and processes of attention. Special attention will be paid throughout to neuroanatomical and neurophysiological substrates of learning, memory, and behavior.Prerequisites: PSY 111, PSY 271 and PSY 294 OR ASO 301.
PSS 320.  Special Topics in Psychological Science.  (3; maximum 6)
Examination of selected topics, emphasizing the application of psychological theories, principles, research, and methods to focused phenomena, including contemporary issues.Prerequisite: PSY 294 OR ASO 301.
PSS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
PSS 350.  Introduction to Counseling Methods.  (3)
Introduction to Counseling will emphasize the scientific, experimental character of psychology in exploring how we perceive and respond to the world and how we are shaped by internal and external influences. We will look at historical theories and new research findings. By the end of the course, you should be able to better understand the professional roles, skills, and responsibilities of clinical and counseling psychologists, licensed professional counselors, and clinical social workers in American society and the current challenges/issues surrounding the mental health profession.Prerequisites: PSY 111 or equivalent, PSY 294 OR ASO 301.
PSS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
PSS 401.  Capstone in Psychological Science.  (3; maximum 6) (MPC)
As a culminating experience in the major, students will view a topic in psychology from a variety of lenses (for example, individual/identity level, psychosocial/group level, sociocultural, neurobiology/physiology, evolutionary/ethological). Seminar style sessions will include students on the planning and coordination of class activities, which will include writing and presenting research or research summaries for both professional and non-professional audiences.Prerequisites: PSY 111 or equivalent, PSY 293 and PSY 294.
PSS 420.  Advanced Topics in Psychological Science.  (3)
Advanced consideration of selected topics in psychological science emphasizing the application of theories, principles, research, and methods to focused phenomena, including contemporary issues.Prerequisites: PSY 111 or equivalent, PSY 293 and PSY 294.
PSS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel