Russian (RUS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Russian (RUS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Russian (RUS)
Russian (RUS)
RUS 101.  Beginner's Course.  (4)
Essentials of Russian language including rudiments of grammar, acquisition of a simple vocabulary, practice in reading and conversation, and simple written exercises.
RUS 102.  Beginner's Course.  (4)
Essentials of Russian language including rudiments of grammar, acquisition of a simple vocabulary, practice in reading and conversation, and simple written exercises.
RUS 137.  Russian Folklore.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Introduction to Russian folklore, including study of the folk tale, charms and incantations, ceremonial poetry connected with the calendar, jokes, proverbs, folk ditties, wedding ceremonies, funeral customs, modern gestures, and graffiti. Some discussion devoted to Slavic pre-Christian society and survivals of pagan customs in the Christian era. Considerable treatment of comparative folklore worldwide. Taught in English. IIB. IIIB. IC. CAS-B-LIT.
RUS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
RUS 201.  Intermediate Russian.  (3) (MPT)
Conversation, vocabulary building, readings, composition, grammar.
RUS 202.  Intermediate Russian.  (3) (MPT)
Conversation, vocabulary building, readings, composition, grammar. CAS-A.
RUS 250.  Topics in Russian Literature in English Translation.  (3) (MPT)
Treatment of selected works of Russian literature that suggest particular thematic problems. For nonspecialist with little or no background in Russian literature. Taught in English. CAS-B-LIT.
RUS 254.  Introduction to Russian and Eurasian Studies.  (3) (MPF)
Examines the major developments that have shaped Russian and Eurasian culture, society and politics over the last millenium. The course incorporates perspectives from the social sciences, humanities and the fine arts. Taught in English. IIB. ADVW. CAS-B.Cross-listed with ATH/CLS/ITS/HST/POL/RUS.
RUS 255.  Love and Death in Nineteenth-Century Russian Literature.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Examines works by Pushkin, Lermontov, Gogol, Turgenev, and Dostoevsky and a number of critical essays representative of a variety of viewpoints. Uses interdisciplinary approach that takes into account social, historical, political, religious, as well as literary factors. IIB. IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG.
RUS 256.  Empire and Utopia in Russian Literature.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Treatment of selected works of Russian literature (realism, modernism, post-modernism) with special attention to Tolstoy, Chekhov, Bunin, Sologub, Bulgakov, Babel and Nabokov. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG.
RUS 257.  Communism and Catastrophe in Modern Russian Literature.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Treatment of major trends in the development of Russian literature since 1953. Examines works by Pasternak, Solzhenitsyn, Rasputin, Trifonov, and others. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG 267.
RUS 263.  Soviet & Post-Soviet Russian Cinema.  (3) (MPT)
Critical survey of directors, genres, and movements in Soviet cinema. Screening of films from Eisenstein to current directors. Lectures, discussion, and readings in English. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with FST.
RUS 272.  Cinemas and Cultures of Central and Eastern Europe.  (3)
Analyses the developments and trends in the cinemas and cultures in Central and Eastern Europe from 1945 to the present; reflects on the definition of filmmaking beyond national concepts. Global context is determined by the theoretical exploration of: 1) the geopolitical region of Germany as well as Central and Eastern Europe in dialog with Western Europe and the world; 2) cultural practices related to identity formation and aesthetic perception; 3) film production and reception among domestic and international audiences; and 4) the interplay of film cultures in the Cold War. Taught in English and all films have English subtitles. IIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with FST/GER.
RUS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
RUS 301.  Advanced Russian.  (3) (MPT)
Conversation, advanced composition, reading in Russian literature.Prerequisite: RUS 202.
RUS 302.  Advanced Russian.  (3) (MPT)
Conversation, advanced composition, reading in Russian literature.Prerequisite: RUS 202.
RUS 311.  Reading in Russian.  (3)
Enables students to develop fluency in reading Russian texts. Core readings for all students and supplemental readings according to individual interests.Prerequisite: RUS 202 or equivalent.
RUS 325.  Russian Reception of Classical Culture.  (3)
Examines a variety of forms and poetic expressions in both modern (Russian) and ancient poetry. Introduces students to the way in which Russian literature and especially poetry responded to Greco-Roman antiquity. Analyzes how the study of classical antiquity, with its rich mythological tradition and history, represented to the Russian literary elite a window into the West and an opportunity to establish a Russian literary heritage within Western literary canon. All readings in English translation.Cross-listed with CLS 325.
RUS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
RUS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
RUS 411.  Advanced Conversation, Composition and Reading.  (3)
Practice in oral communication and composition at the advanced level.Prerequisite: RUS 302.
RUS 436/RUS 536.  Havighurst Colloquium.  (3)
Exploration of significant issues related to Russian and post communist affairs. Each semester focuses on a central theme or topic that is examined through presentations, readings, research, discussion, and writing. May be repeated once for credit with only 3 hours counting towards the history major. Taught in English.Cross-listed with ATH 436/ATH 536; CLS 436; HST 436/HST 536; POL 440/POL 540 and REL 470A.
RUS 450.  Topics in Russian Culture.  (3; maximum 9)
RUS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
RUS 480.  Departmental Honors.  (1-6; maximum 6)
May be taken in senior year.Prerequisite: permission of instructor and department.
RUS 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel