American Culture & English Program (ACE) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
American Culture &​ English Program (ACE)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·American Culture & English Program (ACE)
American Culture & English Program (ACE)
ACE 111.  American Academic Culture for International Students.  (2)
An orientation to the principles, values, conventions, and practices of the American university, with an emphasis on the intellectual competencies, cultural knowledge, and communication skills needed for success. Intended for first-year international students. Topics include academic integrity and ethics, comprehension and critical analysis of texts, effective classroom participation and interaction, and basic communication tools and strategies. (Open only to international students).
ACE 112.  Advanced Communications Strategies: Speaking and Listening for Academic Contexts.  (5)
For non-native, English speaking students, intensive practice in spoken English in an academic context; includes discussion, formal presentations, understanding lectures and note-taking; to promote advancement of language fluency as well as acculturation to the American classroom experience; also includes casual spoken English. Only open to conditional admission students in ACE Program.
ACE 113.  Reading and Writing in Academic Contexts.  (4)
For non-native, English speaking students, an intensive reading and writing course focusing on reading comprehension, textual analysis, vocabulary, composing, and rhetoric. Students learn critical skills needed for success in academic writing. Open only to conditional admission students in ACE Program and students who have been recommended based on their English Placement Test scores.
ACE 310.  Special Topics in American Academic Culture for International Students.  (1-3; maximum 6)
Orientation to American academic culture for international students. Primary emphasis on strategies, practices, and conventions of academic writing and speaking/presenting. Variable topics include: strategies for academic writing and discussing/presenting; practical grammar; collaboration and team work; citation practices; written genres common in various disciplines. Open only to international students.
ACE 612.  Advanced Communication Strategies for Graduate International Students.  (5)
For non-native, English speaking graduate students, intensive instruction and practice in oral English, both listening and speaking, in graduate-level academic and professional contexts. Includes conversation, discussion, formal presentation and lecturing, interviewing, working in teams with speakers of different languages, and note-taking.
ACE 613.  Advanced Reading and Writing for Graduate International Students.  (4)
For non-native, English speaking graduate students, an intensive reading and writing course focusing on English vocabulary development, reading comprehension and analysis, composing and rhetoric. Students learn critical skills needed for success in academic writing.
ACE 619.  Advanced Speaking and Presentation for Graduate International Students.  (2)
For non-native, English speaking graduate students, an intensive course in English speaking, pronunciation, and presentation, with an emphasis on improving accuracy, fluency, comprehensibility, and clarity of speech, particularly for instructional contexts.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel