Aerospace Studies (AES) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Aerospace Studies (AES)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Aerospace Studies (AES)
Aerospace Studies (AES)
AES 110.  Leadership Laboratory.  (1)
Introduction and orientation to the Air Force through study and supervised practice of customs and courtesies, drill and ceremonies, and development of basic leadership skills. Provides orientation to life and work of an Air Force junior officer and officer career opportunities. Instruction, typically including field trips to Air Force installations, conducted within framework of an organized cadet corps with a progression of experiences to develop leadership potential. Limited to qualified cadets pursuing an Air Force commission.Co-requisite: AES 121.
AES 111.  Leadership Laboratory.  (1)
Continues introduction and orientation to Air Force and ROTC program through study and supervised practice of customs and courtesies, drill and ceremonies, development of basic leadership skills, and junior officer responsibilities and career opportunities. Instruction conducted via direct student involvement in organized cadet corps activities and progressive cadet experiences designed to develop leadership potential. Limited to qualified cadets pursuing an Air Force commission.Co-requisite: AES 122.
AES 121.  Heritage and Values of the United States Air Force.  (1)
Fall semester survey course addresses basic topics relating to the Air Force and its role in national defense. Focuses on military standards, customs and courtesies, officership, career opportunities and benefits. Reviews the organization and mission of the Air Force and its role in achieving U.S. national objectives. Examines the Air Force major command structure, its heritage and includes an introduction to the military style of communicative skills.
AES 122.  Heritage and Values of the United States Air Force.  (1)
Continuation of AES 121. Further addresses basic topics related to the Air Force and airpower. Focuses on the evolution of the Air Force, the principles of war, the Department of the Air Force organization and resources, and interpersonal communications and their impact on military operations. Develops fundamental military-oriented oral and written communicative skills.Prerequisite: AES 121 or permission of instructor.
AES 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
AES 210.  Leadership Laboratory.  (1)
Provides fundamental training and experience in Air Force military management and leadership techniques via direct student participation in organized cadet corps activities and exercises with continued emphasis on developing leadership potential. Instruction includes customs and courtesies, drill and ceremonies, and knowledge of junior officer responsibilities and career opportunities. Limited to qualified cadets pursuing an Air Force commission.Prerequisite: AES 110, 111, or permission from instructor.Co-requisite: AES 221.
AES 211.  Leadership Laboratory.  (1)
Provides continuation of fundamental training and learning experiences in Air Force military management and leadership techniques in organized cadet corps leadership development activities and exercises. Instruction includes Air Force customs and courtesies' drill and ceremonies, and knowledge of junior officer responsibilities and career opportunities. Limited to qualified cadets pursuing an Air Force commission.Prerequisite: AES 110, 111, or permission from instructor.Co-requisite: AES 222.
AES 221.  Team and Leadership Fundamentals.  (1) (MPT)
Survey course designed to provide a fundamental understanding of both leadership and team building. Overview of the many layers of leadership to include listening, understanding one's self, being a good follower and problem solving efficiently; application of leadership perspectives in team building activities and discussions on conflict management. Students will demonstrate basic verbal and written communication skills in this course.
AES 222.  Team and Leadership Fundamentals.  (1) (MPT)
Continuation of AES 221. Survey course designed to provide a fundamental understanding of both leadership and team building. Overview of the many layers of leadership to include listening, understanding one's self, being a good follower and problem solving efficiently; application of leadership perspectives in team building activities and discussions on conflict management. Students will demonstrate basic verbal and written communication skills in this course.Prerequisite: AES 221 or permission from instructor.
AES 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
AES 310.  Leadership Laboratory.  (1)
Provides intermediate-level management training and learning experiences through practical application of military management techniques in organized cadet corps leadership development activities. Limited to qualified cadets pursuing Air Force commission.Co-requisite: AES 331.
AES 311.  Leadership Laboratory.  (1)
Continues intermediate-level management training and learning experiences of military management techniques in organized cadet corps leadership development activities. Limited to qualified cadets pursuing an Air Force commission.Prerequisite: AES 310.Co-requisite: AES 332.
AES 331.  Leading People and Effective Communication.  (3)
Study of the skills and knowledge necessary for leader development and effective supervision. Examines critical thinking, change management, priority management, bias and cross-cultural competence. Explores various case studies on leadership, management, airmanship and ethics. Emphasizes Air Force communication skills in writing and briefing.
AES 332.  Leading People and Effective Communication.  (3)
Continuation of AES 331. Examines aspects of leadership and communication as it relates to the individual and the group. Topic highlights include mentoring, feedback and organizational climate. Explores self-awareness, professionalism and stress management and resiliency techniques. Examines ethical issues in the context of the Air Force officer's leadership authority, responsibility, and accountability while focusing on ways to develop effective leadership and management skills. This course continues to emphasize Air Force communication skills in writing and briefing.Prerequisite: AES 331 or permission of instructor.
AES 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
AES 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
AES 410.  Leadership Laboratory.  (1)
Provides advanced-level management training and learning experiences through practical application of military leadership principles in organized cadet corps leadership development activities. Strong emphasis on professionalism and officership. Limited to qualified cadets pursuing an Air Force commission.Prerequisite: AES 311.Co-requisite: AES 431.
AES 411.  Leadership Laboratory.  (1)
Continues advanced-level management training and learning experiences through practical application of military leadership techniques in organized cadet corps leadership development activities. Strong emphasis on professionalism and officership. Limited to qualified cadets pursuing an Air Force commission.Prerequisite: AES 410.Co-requisite: AES 432.
AES 431.  National Security/Leadership Responsibilities/Commissioning Preparation.  (3) (MPT)
Examines the basic elements of national security policy and process. Focuses on air, space and cyberspace operations; selected roles of the military in society; and, current domestic and international issues affecting the military profession. Examines functions and operations of the Department of Defense, the Air Force and other military services. Focuses on several global hot spots and analyzes their impact on U.S. national security. Examines other defense/security issues, such as nuclear operations, terrorism, deployments and the concept of civilian control of the military.
AES 432.  National Security/Leadership Responsibilities/Commissioning Preparation.  (3) (MPC)
Covers advanced leadership topics, ethics, and Air Force doctrine for prospective Air Force officers about to assume active duty. Special topics focus on the military as a profession, the oath of office, military justice, the military evaluation system, career progression and assignments, benefits and current issues affecting military professionalism. Within this structure, continued emphasis is given to refining communication skills.Prerequisite: AES 431 or permission from instructor.
AES 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel