American Studies (AMS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
American Studies (AMS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·American Studies (AMS)
American Studies (AMS)
AMS 105.  American Studies Film Series.  (1)
This course examines selected films addressing a particular theme or issue in American culture. Themes and films vary from semester to semester.
AMS 135.  Understanding Jazz, Its History and Context.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
History of jazz in the United States from its origins to the present. Emphasis placed on developing aural perceptions of stylistic differences between historical periods and significant performers. IIA, IIB, IIIB.Cross-listed with MUS.
AMS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
AMS 183.  Images of America.  (3) (MPF)
Investigating the power and influence of visual art imagery, either about, targeted to, or made by diverse segments of historic and contemporary American society and how this imagery has helped or hindered our coming together as a diverse nation. Explores the use of art stereotypes as a basis for evaluation, how visual components help define culture, the decoding of cultural codes and how the idea of taste and aesthetics influences the way we see ourselves and others. IC, IIA, IIB.Cross-listed with ART.
AMS 205.  Introduction to American Cultures.  (3) (MPF)
Explores what it means to be "American." As an introduction to the interdisciplinary study of American cultures and identities, past and present, it examines key ideas, events, texts, images, objects, places, and other reflections of American cultures and identities. Students will consider how the meaning and significance of American and American identity has been defined, discussed and debated from multiple perspectives. IC, IIB. CAS-B.
AMS 206.  Approaches to American Culture.  (3)
Examines a specific topic or case study, e.g., a form of cultural expression, a place, a historical moment, a social movement, and an identity group. Emphasis is placed on interdisciplinary skills, teaching students to analyze and inter-relate different kinds of texts to explore the idea of culture. ADVW.Prerequisite: AMS 205.
AMS 207.  America: Global and Intercultural Perspectives.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Explores the local dimensions of globalization by focusing on how global networks and practices affect life and culture in the United States. Students examine the theoretical and practical questions associated with membership in local communities, in the US as a nation-state, and in the global community at large. IC, IIB, IIIB. CAS-B.
AMS 211.  Writing with Purpose: Interdisciplinary Inquiry and Communication.  (3)
This is an intermediate level course which enables students to investigate and discuss interdisciplinary practices of knowledge creation and dissemination. Students will practice a variety of writing and other communication strategies necessary for the effective dissemination of ideas to interdisciplinary audiences and the general public, and can expect to gain experience in working with a wide spectrum of interdisciplinary research, tools and methods while engaging intellectually in interdisciplinary modes of thinking, reading, listening, and speaking. ADVW.Cross-listed with AAA/BWS/LAS/WGS.
AMS 216.  Introduction to Public History.  (3)
Introduction to the major issues addressed by historians who work in the public sphere, with emphasis on the creation of a shared public past and the disciplines that comprise the field of public history.Cross-listed with HST.
AMS 222.  Italian American Culture.  (3) (MPF)
A survey and investigation of the history of Italian immigration in America, the development of Italian American communities across the land, and the contributions that Italian Americans have made to American society and culture. Taught in English. No prerequisites. IC, IIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with FST/ITL.
AMS 241.  Religions of the American Peoples.  (3) (MPT)
American religious pluralism and the experience of minority peoples such as Roman Catholics, Jews, and Eastern Orthodox. Emphasis on historical, social, and cultural themes. Readings in fiction and autobiographical writings. IC. CAS-B.Cross-listed with REL.
AMS 246.  Native American Literature.  (3) (MPF)
Survey of published Native American fiction, poetry, memoir, drama, and non-fiction from the mid-19th century to the present. Explores cultural contexts and emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach that includes historical, sociological, and anthropological as well as literary perspectives. IC, IIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG 246.
AMS 248.  Asian American Literature.  (3) (MPF)
Survey of Asian American writing (including the novel, poetry, drama, nonfiction, etc.) from the early 20th century to the present. Addresses immigration experiences, growing up in America, and writing as cultural expression. Course uses an interdisciplinary approach to the study of literature, drawing on history, sociology, ethnic studies, and current trends in American literary studies. IC, IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with AAA and ENG.
AMS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
AMS 285.  Introduction to African American Music.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
A general survey of traditional West African music and its offsprings in America from slavery to the early 1990s. Major emphasis is placed on the contributory, sociological settings for significant musical forms and styles. IIA, IIB, IIIB. IC.Prerequisite: MUS/AMS 135 or MUS 185.Cross-listed with MUS.
AMS 301.  American Identities.  (3) (MPT)
Focusing on a specific theme, topic or issue, the course explores social and cultural identity, intercultural exchange, and public culture in the United States. The course connects theory and practice through collaborative and interactive research and learning in American Studies. Approaches include service learning, field research, experiential learning, or applied research. EL. IC.Prerequisite: AMS 205.
AMS 302.  Immigrant America.  (3) (MPT)
Examination of U.S. immigration and emigration in historical and contemporary perspective. Using a transnational lens, the course explores a range of topics related to American culture, identity, politics, and history in the context of growing global interconnectedness. IC. Recommended prerequisite: AMS 205.
AMS 303.  Consumer Culture.  (3)
This course examines the messages, meanings, practices, and products of consumer culture in the United States. It explores consumption from an interdisicplinary perspective integrating literature, politics, visual imagery, multimedia, and technology that frame the business of buying and selling of goods. Central topics include advertising and desire, the meaning of consumer goods and the construction of consumer lifestyles, as well as the developing practices of salesmanship, marketing, and public relations in historical context. Course themes will focus on the analysis and interpretation of the American practices of consumerism with an emphasis on issues of commodification, globalization, transnationalism and issues of identity. Students will explore how consumerism affects ideals of belonging, citizenship, and membership in a heterogenous transnational America.
AMS 304.  History, Memory, Tradition.  (3)
Examination of the role of history, memory, and tradition in American culture, and the theoretical underpinnings of public history.Cross-listed with HST 304.
AMS 305.  American Icons.  (3)
American Icons are objects, images, and symbols of identification, which represent the United States and are associated with the idea of America both at home and in the global world. The significance of American icons derives not solely from their own internal qualities, but often from the qualities and ambitions that they have come to represent for others. Through a critical examination of their creation, dissemination, and legacies, this course explores the variety of meanings that these figures and symbols have come to represent. Central themes include the relevance of the past for the present, varieties of cultural representation, the impact that different forms of representation have on their content, and the coherence of American culture. IC.
AMS 310.  Special Topics in American Studies.  (1-4; maximum 16)
Topical offerings in American Studies on themes such as popular culture, material culture, ethnicity, or periods in American life such as the 1950s. May be taken for credit more than once with different content and permission of instructor.Prerequisite: AMS 205 or permission of instructor.
AMS 310I.  Selected Topics/Black World Studies.  (3)
These courses examine specific aspects of the research, theories, roles, status, and experiences associated with blacks in America and throughout the world.
AMS 315.  Latin American Diaspora: Communities, Conditions and Issues.  (3)
Study realities and challenges of Hispanic-Latino communities in Southwest Ohio in the context of transnational connections that link communities across the Americas. Incorporates Service-Learning projects and community based research. IC.Cross-listed with LAS.
AMS 340.  Internship in American Studies.  (0-20)
AMS 342.  Religious Pluralism in Modern America.  (4) (MPT)
Historical and cultural analysis of religious communities of the U.S. of primarily non-European origin. Includes African American, Native American, Latino, and Middle Eastern and Asian traditions, including Islam. IC. CAS-B.Cross-listed with REL.
AMS 345.  Women, Religion and Social Change in America.  (3) (MPT)
An exploration of various ways in which women lifted their own voices, engaged with societal issues, and constructed their communities and themselves through the institutions and frameworks of religion in America.Cross-listed with REL/WGS.
AMS 346.  Issues in the Study of Native American Religions.  (3) (MPT)
This course focuses on the methods by which Native American religions have been studied and represented, and ways in which these methods and representations have been, and continue to be, critiqued.Prerequisite: REL 101 or 242.Cross-listed with REL.
AMS 348.  Ethnic American Literatures.  (3)
Intensive introduction to theories of race, ethnicity, and identity through the study of American literature by ethnic minorities. IC. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG.
AMS 352.  Geographies of Urban Change.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Examines the cultural, social and political dimensions of urban planning and development practices in the United States. Drawing on an array of source materials and using multiple methods of representing past places, students apply analytical tools to document the nature, extent, and significance of urban change and to communicate their understanding of the complex forces shaping urban America.Prerequisites: GEO 201 or AMS 205 or GEO 101 or GIC 101 or permission of the instructor.Cross-listed with GEO.
AMS 357.  Gilded Age America.  (3)
Covering the period between 1877 and about 1920, this course explores the political, economic, social, and cultural history of the era in the United States known as the Gilded Age, as well as Progressive Era responses to issues raised in that era. Pedagogy includes both lecture and hands-on experiential work with primary and secondary sources.Cross-listed with HST.
AMS 362.  The Era of the American Revolution.  (3)
Origins, events, and legacies of the American Revolution with particular emphasis on political and social developments. CAS-B.Cross-listed with HST 362.
AMS 363.  The Early American Republic 1783-1815.  (3)
Emphasizes the Constitution, the Federalists, and the Jeffersonians with study of Washington, Madison, Hamilton, John Adams, and Jefferson as major figures.Cross-listed with HST 363.
AMS 367.  The United States in the 1960s.  (3) (MPT)
Examines political, social, and cultural changes in the United States in the turbulent decade of the 1960s. Describes the consensus that existed in the 1950s, and then explores such topics as the civil rights movement, the women's movement, expansion of the welfare state, war in Vietnam, and the growth of a counterculture.Cross-listed with HST.
AMS 371.  Native American History to 1840.  (3)
American Indian history from the period before European contact through the removal era of the 1830s and 1840s.Cross-listed with HST.
AMS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
AMS 379.  U.S. Consumerism, 1890-Present.  (3)
Examines the history of mass consumerism in North American society, including the rise of mass production and the mechanisms that have made mass-produced goods available to American and global markets.Cross-listed with HST 379.
AMS 382.  Women in American History.  (3) (MPT)
Survey of the history of women's lives and roles in American society from the colonial period to present. Emphasis on examining women's individual and collective roles in private and public spheres and on exploring how specific economic and political transformations have affected women's lives. IC. CAS-B.Cross-listed with HST/WGS.
AMS 386.  The History and Development of Hip Hop Culture in America.  (3) (MPT)
Surveys development of the Hip Hop culture (rapping, graffiti art, breaking, DJing) from black vernacular forms in Africa and America. IC.Prerequisite: MUS/AMS 285, MUS 385 or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with MUS.
AMS 390.  Studies in American Regionalism.  (3; maximum 6) (MPT)
Literature of the West: imaginative treatments of the American frontier and the postfrontier West, Cooper to the present; major Southern American writers from Byrd to the present. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG.
AMS 392.  Sex and Gender in American Culture.  (3) (MPT)
Examination of change over time in the construction of sexual norms, attitudes, and behaviors in American culture, as well as of gender roles. Covers the period just prior to the Indian-European encounter to the present. IC. CAS-B.Cross-listed with HST/WGS.
AMS 397.  American Environmental History.  (3)
Introduction to human-natural environmental relationships in English North America and the United States, ca. 1600 to present. Chronological and regional approach with emphasis upon political economy and the American conservationist/environmentalist movement.Cross-listed with HST 397 and WST 397.
AMS 401.  Senior Capstone in American Studies.  (4) (MPC)
A colloquium in which students undertake and complete a research or creative project in an area of American cultural studies. Emphasis is on the collaborative selection and design of issues for discussion as well as on sharing the process of project development. Required for American studies majors and minors.Prerequisite: AMS 205, nine additional hours of American studies-related course work, or permission of instructor.
AMS 405.  American Studies Workshop.  (1-4; maximum 4)
Practice, reflection, and presentation of student driven research and engagement in American Studies.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
AMS 435.  Public History Practicum.  (3)
Combines classroom study, primary and secondary source research, and fieldwork in the public sphere. Projects may include digital history projects including database projects, digital visual representations, and creation of online exhibits. Other projects may include archival research, local museum and historical society collaborative projects, and public writing.Cross-listed with HST.
AMS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
AMS 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel