Arabic (ARB) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Arabic (ARB)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Arabic (ARB)
Arabic (ARB)
ARB 101.  Elementary Arabic I.  (4)
Study of the Arabic alphabet and sounds system. Builds a foundation of speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills, with culturally appropriate behavior. For students with no prior study of Arabic.
ARB 102.  Elementary Arabic II.  (4)
Continues to build communication skills in spoken and standard Arabic. Develops a balanced knowledge of listening, speaking, reading and writing skills.Prerequisite: ARB 101 or equivalent.
ARB 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ARB 201.  Intermediate Modern Arabic.  (3)
Strengthens listening comprehension, speaking, reading and writing skills in spoken and standard Arabic. Builds knowledge of Arabic language and culture.Prerequisite: ARB 102 or equivalent.
ARB 202.  Intermediate Modern Arabic.  (3)
Builds a solid intermediate level of skill in Arabic so that students can read and discuss topics of general interest, including aspects of Arab culture.Prerequisite: ARB 201 or permission of instructor.
ARB 230.  Topics in Arabic Literature in Translation.  (3)
Examines travel as a major theme in Arabic literature from the classical era to modern time. It considers four types of travel: the nomadic tradition, voyages of pilgrimage and discovery, encounters with outsiders, and Arab diasporas. All works read in English translation.
ARB 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ARB 301.  Advanced Arabic.  (3)
Focuses on advanced reading and discussion of literary and cultural topics that range from the classical period to the present day. Integrates comprehension and communication skills in spoken and standard Arabic.Prerequisite: ARB 202 or permission of instructor.
ARB 302.  Advanced Arabic.  (3)
Focuses on advanced reading and discussion on literary and cultural topics that range from the classical period to the present day. Integrates comprehension and communication skills in spoken and standard Arabic.Prerequisite: ARB 301 or permission of instructor.
ARB 311.  Media Arabic.  (3)
Focuses on developing student's ability to understand and use authentic materials from electronic, broadcast, and print media.Prerequisite: ARB 301 or permission of instructor.
ARB 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
ARB 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ARB 401.  Advanced Arabic Conversation and Composition.  (3)
Develops abilities to communicate orally and in writing through reading and discussion of literary and cultural topicsfrom the classical period to the present day. Integrates comprehension and communication skills in spoken and standard Arabic.Prerequisite: ARB 302 or permission of instructor.
ARB 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ARB 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ARB 680.  Directed Study in Arabic Language and Literature.  (1-4; maximum 12)
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing and permission of department chair and instructors.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel