Anthropology (ATH) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Anthropology (ATH)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Anthropology (ATH)
Anthropology (ATH)
ATH 135.  Film as Ethnography.  (1) (MPF)
Explores anthropological approaches to the study of human diversity and variation through the lens of ethnographic and documentary films. Exposes students to basic concepts in anthropology including cultural and linguistic relativity, globalization, and representational practices. IIIB. CAS-C.Cross-listed with FST.
ATH 145.  Lost Cities & Ancient Civilizations.  (3) (MPF)
Archaeological and anthropological approaches for understanding human cultural, social, and ecological adaptations in global prehistory. Examines similarities and differences among prehistoric peoples and civilizations and their global contexts and interconnectedness in terms of political economy and social organization; technologies, engineering, and environment; and religion and symbolic systems. IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.
ATH 155.  Introduction to Anthropology.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to anthropology with emphasis on understanding the social and biological contexts of human life. Topics include the biological and cultural origins of humanity, prehistory, and cultural diversity. IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.
ATH 175.  Peoples of the World.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Provides an appreciation of human cultural, social, and linguistic variation around the world and through time. Develops anthropological and ethnographic approaches to understanding cultural differences and similarities in political, social and economic organization; marriage and family patterns; environment and beliefs systems; and other aspects of globalized human cultural life. IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.
ATH 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ATH 185.  Cultural Diversity in the U.S..  (3) (MPF)
Anthropological and ethnographic approaches to the study of cultural, social, and linguistic variation in the United States, its territories, and borderlands. As an introduction to cultural anthropology, the course provides a foundation for understanding historical and contemporary contexts related to globalization and diaspora; ethnic, racial, and class identities; political economy and environment; belief systems; and ethnographic methodology. IC, IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.
ATH 190.  Emergent Controversies: Anthropological Perspectives.  (1-4; maximum 4) (MPF)
Variable topics course that introduces students to the basics of anthropology and critical thinking using analyses and case studies of controversial emerging events and hotly debated contemporary issues. IIIB, IIC.
ATH 206.  Introduction to Latin America.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
An interdisciplinary introduction to contemporary Latin America and the Caribbean through anthropology, art, geography, environment, film, history, literature, music, politics, sports and others. IC, IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.Cross-listed with LAS 208.
ATH 212.  Introduction to Archaeological Theory and Methods.  (4)
Introduction to theory, methods, and techniques of archaeology.
ATH 219.  Introduction to Linguistics.  (3) (MPF)
Scope of linguistics: fundamental concepts and methods of linguistic science (phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics) in its descriptive and historical aspects. V. CAS-E.Cross-listed with ENG/GER.
ATH 231.  Foundations of Cultural Anthropology.  (4) (MPT)
Survey of major theoretical perspectives in cultural anthropology. History, themes, debates, and controversies are approached in terms of their intellectual lineage, theoretical content, fieldwork methodologies and ethics, policy applications, and global relevance. ADVW. CAS-C.
ATH 235.  Imagining and Encountering the Anthropological Other.  (3) (MPF)
This course explores the emergence of 'the Other' in Western imagination in conjunction with global exploration and colonization, and the emergence of anthropology as a field for testing those imaginings. Students will be introduced and given opportunities to practice anthropology's basic methods for engaging with and learning from individuals living in cultural worlds different from their own. IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.
ATH 235L.  The Anthropological Other.  (3)
Explores the emergence of 'the Other' in Western imagination in conjunction with global exploration and colonization, and the emergence of anthropology as a field for testing those imaginings. Students will be introduced and given opportunities to practice anthropology's basic methods for engaging with and learning from individuals living in cultural worlds different from their own.
ATH 254.  Introduction to Russian and Eurasian Studies.  (3) (MPF)
Examines the major developments that have shaped Russian and Eurasian culture, society and politics over the last millennium. The course incorporates perspectives from the social sciences, humanities and the fine arts. IIB. ADVW. CAS-B.Cross-listed with CLS/HST/ITS/POL/REL/RUS.
ATH 255.  Introduction to Biological Anthropology.  (4) (MPF)
Introduction to biological anthropology, including evolutionary theory, human origins, models of human evolution, human variation, and primatology. IVA. CAS-C, CAS-D.
ATH 265.  Introduction to Linguistic Anthropology.  (4) (MPT)
Survey of theories and methods in linguistic anthropology, including history of the discipline and linguistic relativity; verbal art, language ideologies, and identities; and discourse-centered, interactional, and semiotic approaches to the ethnographic study of the language-culture-individual nexus.
ATH 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ATH 301.  Intercultural Relations.  (3) (MPT)
Development of cultural awareness; in-depth study of theory and field-based research on the cross-cultural dynamics of cross-national encounters, trends, and events.Cross-listed with ITS.
ATH 302.  Africa: Anthropological Perspectives.  (3)
Explores Africa and Africa issues by critically examining anthropological representations of the continent and diaspora, including ethnography, ethnographic film, and fieldwork accounts. Examines myriad cultural and regional variations in historical and contemporary contexts, including social organization and conflict; globalization, colonialism, and modernity; economies, politics and nationalism; belief systems; gender, sexuality, health and the body; and expressive and popular culture.
ATH 304.  Native North America: Anthropological Perspectives.  (3) (MPT)
Critical and interdisciplinary approaches to the anthropological and ethnographic study of the Indigenous peoples of North America, including examination of the multifaceted cultures, histories, and identities of contemporary Native American/First Nations communities. Topics include sovereignty and interdependence, colonization and resistance, linguistic and cultural vitality, and expressive culture and representational practices. IC.
ATH 305.  Latin America: Anthropological Perspectives.  (3) (MPT)
Survey of the culture areas of Middle and South America including prehistory, ethnology, linguistics, and contemporary developments.
ATH 306.  Russia and Eurasia: Anthropological Perspectives.  (3) (MPT)
Description and analysis of the cultures of Russia and Eurasia with a focus on non-Russian peoples and contemporary survival.
ATH 307.  The Middle East: Anthropological Perspectives.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Survey and analysis of various cultural groups in contemporary Southwest Asia and North Africa. IIIB. CASW-C.Cross-listed with BWS.
ATH 308.  South Asia: Anthropological Perspectives.  (3)
Anthropologically examines contemporary South Asian societies focusing on ethnographic accounts of how people understand and manipulate their social, economic, political, ideological, religious, and technical resources to solve local and universal human problems within a context of colonialism and globalization.
ATH 312.  North American Archaeology.  (3)
Explores the major debates in the archaeology of North America from its first peopling through the colonial period up to the present, emphasizing intercutlual connections and the diversity and variability of the major cultural traditions. Variable topics include indigenous communities; archaeology of slavery; collecting, looting, and museum representation; and cultural resource legislation.
ATH 313.  Latin American Archaeology.  (3) (MPF)
Explores the archaeology of Central and South America through topics such as the Aztec temples, Maya hieroglyphs, and Inka Imperial roads. Students learn about Latin America from the first people to European colonialism and beyond through scientific investigation and hands-on work with artifacts. IC, IIC, IIIB. CASC.
ATH 314.  Old World Archaeology.  (3)
Introduction to the archaeology of Africa and Eurasia in premodern contexts in order to understand ancient lifeways and cultural interactions in the Old World. Variable topics may include the emergence of modern humans in Africa; the development of complex societies in ancient Mesopotamia and Egypt; the role of ritual and symbolism in ancient China; or the meaning of social violence in Western Europe.
ATH 325.  Identity, Race, Gender, Class.  (3) (MPT)
Develops conceptual tools and critical perspectives that enable students to better understand and analyze the processes through which identities are constructed and experienced. Learning activities facilitate analysis of individual identities as experienced through the life cycle and across diverse cultural and subcultural contexts, and build a systematic understanding of the processes and dynamics through which identities and identity groups develop and interact. IC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with BWS/LAS/WGS.
ATH 327.  Pokemon and J-Pop in Global and Local Contexts.  (3) (MPF)
This on-line, gamified course allows students to follow one of three learning paths: Global flow theory, J-pop in global contexts, or gaming and fan culture. Students explore complex anthropological and social science concepts such as globalization, political economy, and alterity as a Pokemon character with their own specific attributes. IIC, IIIB. IC. CAS-C.
ATH 329.  Religions of Africa.  (3) (MPT)
Indigenous African religious traditions with consideration of their contemporary interaction with other traditions. CAS-C.
ATH 331.  Social Anthropology.  (3) (MPT)
Exploration of classic and contemporary approaches to social practices and institutions, including kinship, law, political economy, religion and ritual, gender, identity, mobility and violence. CAS-C.
ATH 335L.  Multiculturalism in Europe: Anthropological Perspectives.  (3)
Explores diverse expressions and challenges of multiculturalism in Europe. Readings and class discussions develop anthropological tools and critical perspectives to better understand processes through which identities are constructed and experienced, and to analyze political, economic and historical dynamics through which identity groups develop and interact. Attention is given to the construction of national identities and unmarked racial, religious and sexual majorities against which minority experiences play out, and to understanding politics of difference, ideologies of integration, and processes of cultural change in particular European contexts.
ATH 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
ATH 345.  Global Media, Ethnography, and Film.  (3)
Explores anthropological and ethnographic frameworks to the study of global media flows across boundaries, borders, and time. Examines the ways in which mediated performances, texts, and images are instrumental in building and negotiating communities, cultures, and identities.Cross-listed with FST.
ATH 348.  Introduction to Medical Anthropology.  (3)
Topics and theoretical approaches of medical anthropology. Explores why disease emerges within particular socio-cultural settings and how people in those settings understand and treat their ills. Topics include historical and current pandemics, culturally specific illnesses, local medical practices, and individuals' struggles with particular ills.
ATH 355.  Paleoanthropology.  (3)
In-depth survey of the human fossil record as interpreted in the light of modern evolutionary theory. Taught alternate years.Prerequisite: ATH 255 or permission of instructor, or BIO 206.Cross-listed with BIO.
ATH 358.  Travelers, Migrants, and Refugees: Transnational Migration and Diasporic Communities.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Explores global flows of people across national and cultural boundaries; investigates ways dispersed people build and maintain social networks, communities, and identities. IIIB. CAS-C.
ATH 361.  Language and Power.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Explores the role of linguistic performance, verbal art, and other communicative practices in negotiating power and disparate access to opportunities and resources within and among social groups. Special attention will be given to how identities, ideologies, and worldviews are linguistically created, recreated, and challenged in global contexts. IIIB. CAS-C.
ATH 364.  Language and Culture in Native North America.  (3) (MPT)
Explores the multifaceted communicative and sociolinguistic practices of indigenous peoples of North America in historical and contemporary contexts. Topics include linguistic and cultural vitality; performance, popular culture, and ethnopoetics; identities and language ideologies; and emergent discursive practices. Recommended prerequisite: ATH 265 or ATH/ENG/GER 219.
ATH 366.  African Oral Traditions.  (3) (MPT)
Explores interactions between language and culture among African peoples, especially sub-Saharan peoples. Surveys the indigenous languages of Africa, explores African meaning systems, and examines the uses of language in African societies.
ATH 368.  Key Questions in Psychological Anthropology.  (3)
Psychological anthropology focuses on understanding the individual within society, and thus the ways in which culture constructs and is constructed by the individual. As a subfield, psychological anthropology provides theoretical frameworks widely used throughout anthropology and perspectives useful in cross-cultural and clinical psychology. Through this course, students will have opportunities to analyze the role of culture in individual well-being, and to engage with the key questions and the associated key theoretical concepts that are driving the field forward.
ATH 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ATH 378.  Doctors, Clinics, and Epidemics.  (3)
Explores the contemporary social, cultural, and communicative practices of biomedicine, and links these to the responses to epidemics and social hierarchies that form its European roots. Engages various understandings of clinical language, communication, and structural inequities that challenge the efficacy of medical practice.
ATH 384.  Anthropology of Capitalism: Russia.  (3) (MPT)
Introduces students to the comparative study of capitalism as social and cultural form. Topics to be covered include: exchange, labor, consumer society, gender, perceptions of time and space, "transitions" to capitalism, financial markets.
ATH 388.  Culture, Art, and Artifacts.  (3)
Explores the place of artistic expression and related material culture in diverse socio-cultural contexts. It uses various analytical approaches to address the cultural aspects of origins, function, symbolism, gender, psychology, and change emphasizing non-western cultures.
ATH 390.  Horizons Of Anthropology.  (1-3; maximum 12)
Seminar focused on recent anthropological research.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
ATH 395.  Primate Biology and Behavior.  (3)
Taxonomic survey of the primate order including anatomy, distribution, adaptation, and morphological characteristics of various taxa. Selected primatological topics including primate conservation, reproduction and development, manipulation, and tool use. Recommended prerequisite: ATH 255 or BIO 206; junior or senior status; or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with BIO.
ATH 403/ATH 503.  Anthropology of Religion.  (3)
Examines the study of religion anthropologically and ethnographically, exploring topics of historic interest such as conversion and pilgrimage and emerging debates such as the globalization of religion. Emphasizes the power of religion in human cultural life and its relationship to other social institutions through the study of indigenous religious traditions and major world religions. Introduces anthropological paradigms including cultural materialism, interpretive approaches, structuralism, and religion as an evolutionary adaptation.Prerequisite: ATH 155, 175, 185, 231 or 301.
ATH 405/ATH 505.  Food, Taste, and Desire.  (3) (MPF)
Explores food consumption as a meaningful practice embedded in local, national, and global relations and in social, economic, and political contexts. Topics include history of food consumption; food and power; nation, the state, and food; gender, sexuality and consumption; consumption, marketing, and subjectivity; globalization; hunger and memory; need, taste, and desire; and food aesthetics, moralities, and poetics. IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.
ATH 411.  Applied Anthropology.  (3) (MPT)
New possibilities for using anthropological principles and methods in contemporary nonacademic settings.
ATH 415.  Field Methods in Archaeology.  (1-6; maximum 6)
Practicum course in field and laboratory methods in archaeology. Variable geographic location, content and credit hours.
ATH 416.  Applying Archaeology.  (3)
Capstone with variable topics and experiential learning in SW Ohio on the theories, methods, and practices of archaeology, including research design and field methods; material culture studies; and archaeology’s role in cultural heritage projects and debates.
ATH 421/ATH 521.  Senior Seminar in Anthropology.  (3) (MPC)
Focuses on key issues in anthropology, including a review of the tools of the discipline and anthropology's role in the future.Prerequisite: ATH 212, 231, 255, and ATH 265, senior status and anthropology major, or permission of instructor.
ATH 425/ATH 525.  Ethnographic Field Methods.  (3)
Organization, observation, measurement, and strategy in ethnographic field research.
ATH 426.  Field Research.  (4-6; maximum 6) (MPF, MPC)
This experiential, off-campus capstone allows students to conduct ethnographic fieldwork in local, regional, or global practicum contexts. Students will learn to design ethnographic research, collect data using ethnographic methods, conduct qualitative analysis of original data, and create ethnographic representations based on original data. In addition, students will gain experience with formal research ethics training. IIIB, IC.Prerequisite: at least three ATH credit hours or permission of instructor.
ATH 428.  Anthropology of Women's Health.  (3)
Explores how culture shapes women's bodies and health from a cross-cultural perspective; topics include cross-cultural examinations of women's life-cycle, illnesses, bodily violations, and notions of beauty.Prerequisite: ATH 155 or 175 or 185, or permission of instructor.
ATH 431/ATH 531.  Archaeology of Power.  (3) (MPT)
Examines social and political power in the past, from small scale societies to states and global systems. Explores theoretical approaches to diversity and inequality with case studies from around the world and throughout history that include authority, gender, race, religion, class, colonialism and empire. IC.Cross-listed with CLS 431/CLS 531.
ATH 432/ATH 532.  Secrecy and Statecraft: Spies, Censors, and Prisoners in Authoritarian and Democratic Societies.  (3) (MPT)
Explores secrecy and statecraft through the anthropology of secrecy in modern authoritarian and democratic societies, including state security regimes, state and market surveillance, nuclear and scientific secrecies, and censorship. It also explores popular resistance to state power from concentration camp secrets, anti-state jokes, anti-nuclear and other contemporary anti-secrecy activism. Case studies primarily include the Soviet Union, socialist Eastern Europe, and the USA. CAS-C.
ATH 436/ATH 536.  Havighurst Colloquium.  (3)
Exploration of significant issues related to Russian and post communist affairs. Each semester focuses on a central theme or topic that is examined through presentations, readings, research, discussion, and writing. May be repeated once for credit with only 3 hours counting towards the history major.Cross-listed with CLS 436; HST 436/HST 536/536; RUS 436/RUS 536/536; POL 440/POL 540/540 and REL 470A.
ATH 448.  Developing Solutions in Global Health.  (3) (MPC)
Global health is the study of illness and health as a consequence of bio-cultural processes that are both local and global. This is a transdisciplinary capstone encouraging teamwork to understand the complexities of and develop a grant proposal to address a student-identified global health problem.Prerequisite: junior or senior status.
ATH 465/ATH 565.  Ethnography of Communication.  (3)
Practicum course on the conception, implementation, and analysis of original field research in the ethnography of communication. Provides training in research design, ethnographic and sociologist methods, and multimedia approaches to understanding how individuals and communities negotiate their place in social and cultural worlds through everyday communicative practices.
ATH 471/ATH 571.  Ecological Anthropology.  (3) (MPT)
Survey of ecological methods and models used by anthropologists in the analysis of cultural-environmental relations and in conservation planning.Prerequisite: ATH 155, 175 or 185, or permission of instructor.
ATH 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ATH 480.  Independent Reading for Departmental Honors.  (1-6)
ATH 491.  Anthropology Practicum.  (1-4; maximum 8)
Taken in conjunction with a methods course, a fieldschool, or an on-site research-based learning opportunity in anthropology. Students conduct supervised research-oriented projects such as ethics, research design, internships, ethnographic participant-observation, site analysis, and data analysis. This course is a flexible offering so that faculty and students can develop learning opportunities in response to current and changing issues and needs in the discipline. Permission of the instructor.
ATH 496.  Observing Primate Behavior.  (4)
Theory and method in the study of primate behavior. Applied behavioral primatology entails original research projects done at an appropriate venue, e.g., Cincinnati ZOO. CAS-QL.Prerequisite: ATH 255 or BIO 206, junior or senior status, or permission of instructor.
ATH 497.  Socio-Ecology of Primates.  (3)
Ethology and ecology of living prosimians, monkeys, and apes from comparative and evolutionary perspectives emphasizing field studies of natural populations. Recommended prerequisite: ATH 255 or BIO 206, junior or senior status, or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with BIO.
ATH 498.  Evolution of Human Behavior.  (3) (MPC)
Ethology and ecology of Homo sapiens, from comparative and evolutionary perspectives, drawing on primatology, palaeo-anthropology, and sociocultural studies of traditional societies.Prerequisite: ATH 255 or BIO 206, junior or senior status, or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with BIO.
ATH 670.  Independent Study in Anthropology.  (1-5; maximum 12)
Advanced independent study in selected topics of current interest in anthropology.
ATH 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel