Business Analysis (BUS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Business Analysis (BUS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Business Analysis (BUS)
Business Analysis (BUS)
BUS 101.  Foundations of Business.  (2)
One of four courses that students will complete as part of the eight-credit hour First-Year Integrated Core. BUS 101 introduces students to the foundational concepts of business and allows students to develop essential skills including critical and creative thinking, communication and collaboration, ethical decision making, and utilizing technology to support business functions. Students will learn their own thinking preferences and identify their personal and professional goals.Prerequisites: enrollment in Farmer School of Business.Co-requisites: BUS 102, BUS 104 and ESP 103.
BUS 102.  Foundations of Business Communication.  (2)
As part of the Farmer School of Business's first-year integrated core curriculum, this course introduces students to the fundamentals of business rhetoric and laying the foundation for effective oral and written business communications. EL.Co-requisites: BUS 101, BUS 104 and ESP 103.
BUS 104.  Introduction to Computational Thinking for Business.  (2)
As part of the Farmer School of Business first-year integrated core curriculum, this course introduces students to the fundamentals of computational thinking as an aid to data-driven business problem-solving. Topics include: computational thinking as problem solving, representing data through abstractions, and thinking in terms of algorithms (loops, conditions, reusable code, functions and events) to automate finding solutions. The course lays the foundations for students identifying, analyzing, and implementing solutions for data-driven business problems and the communication of results. EL.Co-requisite: BUS 101, BUS 102 and ESP 103.
BUS 106.  Farmer School of Business Success Strategies.  (1)
This course will provide business students with the resources, tools, and information to support personal, academic, and career goals. Students will explore the liberal arts and business curriculum, begin to develop a personal and professional brand, connect with valuable FSB resources, and build relationships within the diverse FSB community. This course will offer the necessary knowledge and preparation for success in the Farmer School of Business.
BUS 115.  Int'l Student Support.  (1)
The Business Communication and Support for International Students class offers customized and specialized support to international students who are also enrolled in First Year Integrated Core (FYIC) classes. The class will teach students additional strategies on topics they learn in the FYIC classes such as writing cover letters, writing research papers, producing presentations, understanding abstract concepts such as “ambiguity,” “failure,” and “risk.” The small class will allow for the instructor to spend one-on-one time with the students. In class, the instructor will give directive workshops and then students will work with support to complete assignments from the FYIC classes.Co-requisites: BUS 101, BUS 102, ESP 103, and BUS 104.
BUS 151.  Exploring International Business.  (1)
This course introduces topics of interest to first-year students exploring international business. Focus is on globalization, cultural differences, and essentials for working in an international business context.
BUS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BUS 203.  Business Writing Consulting.  (1)
Students will learn principles and practices of writing center consulting for business communications. Students will review key genres of business communications, including memos, letters, executive summaries, reports, proposals, and visual presentation aids. Students who successfully complete the course will be eligible to apply to be paid writing center consultants in the Howe Writing Initiative in the Farmer School of Business. Admission by application only.Prerequisite: BUS 102.
BUS 206.  Exploration for Business Majors.  (1)
This course will explore the diverse career paths available to students studying the field of business, from public and private corporate settings to nonprofit and government sectors. Students will explore personal and academic strengths, identify/confirm possible business majors and potential career paths, and develop their Philosophy of Work. In addition to developing career related documents and job search/interview skills, students will have the opportunity to engage and network with FSB employers and alumni. Credit/No Credit only.
BUS 241.  Business in the Global Market.  (1)
This course allows students the opportunity to engage in individual exploration on doing business in other parts of the world. Enrollment is by permission of instructor only and requires participation in the China Business Certificate Program or the Business in the Global Market Certificate Program.
BUS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BUS 284.  Professional Communication for Business.  (3)
As part of the Farmer School of Business’s core curriculum, this course develops advanced rhetoric knowledge and skills needed to write and present effectively in local and global business contexts, including working in intercultural teams and digital networks.Prerequisites: ENG 109 or ENG 111 and BUS 101, BUS 102 BUS 104 and ESP 103.Cross-listed with ENG.
BUS 301.  Basics of Business I.  (3) (MPT)
An introduction to core business principles and skills. It is designed for students without academic preparation in business and who have majors outside the School of Business. Principles and skills include critical thinking, creative thinking, ethics, oral and written communication, computational thinking, data-driven decision-making, and collaboration. One to three mandatory half day field trips are also included in this course which provide context for BUS 301, 302 and 303.Prerequisite: Enrollment in Miami PRIME and co-registration with BUS 302 and BUS 303.Co-requisites: BUS 302 and BUS 303.
BUS 302.  Basics of Business II.  (3) (MPT)
An introduction to business concepts across the major business disciplines. This course is designed for students without academic preparation in business who have majors outside the School of Business. Topics include major concepts in accounting, management, strategy, entrepreneurship, marketing, finance, and information technology. It exposes students to these areas in the context of the various processes a business must execute in order to add value to the customer.Prerequisite: Enrollment in Miami PRIME and co-registration with BUS 301 and BUS 303.Co-requisite: BUS 301 and BUS 303.
BUS 303.  Business Process Integration.  (3) (MPT)
A project based course where material introduced in BUS 301 and BUS 302 is supplemented with additional material on the strategic planning and supply chain management processes. The course integrates student understanding of business processes through a multidisciplinary and cross-functional team project. This project is coached by a group of instructors from a variety of academic areas. The project simulates the development of a new product within an existing business. This course is designed for students without academic preparation in business who have majors outside the School of Business.Prerequisite: Enrollment in Miami PRIME and co-registration with BUS 301 and BUS 302.
BUS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
Available to Farmer School of Business (FSB) majors and minors. Available for 0 credit hour during spring, summer and fall terms. Available for 1 credit hour during summer terms only. For one hour of credit, student must secure a sponsoring FSB faculty member within his/her major or minor to supervise the internship and accompanying required internship reflection paper. BUS 340 is not available during winter term. Students are to work through their respective academic departments to enroll in the course. Credit/no credit only. Note: FSB students may earn a maximum 2 credit hours toward graduation for BLS/BUS/ECO/ESP/FIN/ISA/MGT/MKT 340.Prerequisite: 55 earned hours and permission of department.
BUS 371.  International Business.  (3)
Acquaints students with problems encountered and adaptations required in business operations within foreign environments.Prerequisites: ECO 201 and ECO 202.
BUS 371L.  International Business.  (3)
Acquaints students with basic concepts and analysis of environmental factors in which international businesses operate, strategic alternatives and applications, case studies, and country analyses. Credit for graduation will not be awarded for more than one of BUS 371 or BUS 371L.Prerequisite: ECO 201 and ECO 202.
BUS 373.  International Business in Focus.  (3)
Survey of the interrelationships of world business operations; an introduction to current conceptual perspectives; cultural, political/legal and economic constraints, the international financial and trade frameworks, and the problems, challenges, and opportunities facing the multinational corporation in a particular country or region of the world.Prerequisite: enrollment in School of Business summer international workshop.
BUS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BUS 420.  FSB International Studies Programs.  (1-3; maximum 6)
The class provides an introduction to the history, culture, geography, business environment, economy, and language of the places FSB students will travel during their summer international experience. Portions of the class are in Oxford prior to departure, and portions are held in the country of the program.Prerequisite: Admission to FSB International Studies Program.
BUS 450C.  Senior Honors Colloquium.  (1)
The Senior Business Honors Colloquium will focus on current issues and topics in business. Students will be expected to conduct original research and present findings to the class, as well as actively engage in others' presentations.Prerequisite: senior standing in the business honors program.
BUS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
BUS 494/BUS 594.  Sustainability Perspectives in Resources and Business.  (3) (MPC)
Provides students with interdisciplinary perspectives of sustainability in business and resource management through consideration of the economic, social, and environmental value of organizations. The course covers principles, case studies, and best practices used by organizations in several areas of sustainability, such as energy efficiency and alternatives, waste management and recycling, ecosystem services, product redesign and life cycle management, resource management, and sustainability planning and reporting.Cross-listed with IES.
BUS 601.  Consulting Capstone.  (6)
The Consulting Capstone is an immersive, project-based, capstone course. It will enable an integrated application of skills and knowledge from courses in the Master's of Science in Business Management (MSM) program. Students will be engaged in a hands on client project. This will require the application of skills and knowledge covered in the Business Core and Practice components of the MSM program, to address the client challenge.Prerequisites: Completion of Foundation week, Business core and Practice component of the Master of Science in Management program.
BUS 637.  Managing Competition.  (3)
The examination of competitive forces in the marketplace and how they can be managed to deliver winning business outcomes. This course will leverage previous MBA course work to take a wholistic view of the various strategic drivers, both internal and external to a firm.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel