Creative Arts (CCA) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Creative Arts (CCA)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Creative Arts (CCA)
Creative Arts (CCA)
CCA 111.  Innovation, Creativity and Design Thinking.  (3) (MPF)
This course will explore the roots of original thought and it's role in the evolution of different areas of human endeavor. Students will explore the many facets of creativity and innovation, which are purely human traits at the heart of our ability to grow, change and adapt as individuals, and ultimately to survive as a species. The course will present scientific and scholarly ways of understanding creativity, but will also engage students in a series of exercises to experience processes through a diverse range of media and project types. Learning the roles and processes of innovation and design thinking will be central to this exploration. Team work, problem-solving and leadership skills will also be addressed, and students will both self-author and collaboratively author original concepts. IIA, V.
CCA 121.  Introduction to the Integrated Arts and Culture.  (3) (MPF)
This course will focus on learning basic arts vocabulary, concepts and principles, with an emphasis on those words and ideas that are common to all the arts. (e.g.: syncopation, rhythm, pattern, etc.) Students will be exposed to the fundamental steps of the creative process that are integral to various artforms. This vocabulary and process will be examined in context through the historical and cultural study of a particular urban location. IIA.Co-requisites: CCA 221 and 321.
CCA 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CCA 182.  Experiencing the Arts.  (1-2)
Introduction to various arts. Attendance at art events required.
CCA 201.  Introduction to Arts Management.  (3)
Introductory seminar to the field of arts management as a profession. The successful arts manager applies business principles in an arts context utilizing field specific skills in creating programming, stimulating public access, generating income, managing boards, and sustaining the mission and vision of the enterprise.
CCA 221.  Immersion in the Integrated Arts and Culture.  (3)
Students will learn about various forms of art (architecture, theatre, design, music, etc.), simultaneously gaining an understanding of their unique characteristics, while learning how they are interconnected, integrated, and sit in a specific cultural context. By studying how architecture and interior space design affects the theatrical/musical performances in an opera house, for instance, students will gain a stronger understanding of how individual arts disciplines enrich one another. Learning would take place in the classroom, as well as in an experiential fashion.Co-requisites: CCA 121 and 321.
CCA 222.  Museums and Collections: Beyond the Curio Cabinet.  (3)
This course explores the evolution of public and private museums, providing a historical perspective on the global significance of object-based collections and institutions and how they have contributed to a deeper understanding of cultural practices. Students explore the societal value and meaning of collections to gain insights into collective memory and the shared human experience.
CCA 231.  Dance for the Musical Stage.  (3)
Introduction to the fundamentals of dance for the musical stage. Open to the students enrolled in the Music Theatre Minor only. Recommended prerequisite: KNH110A Beginning Ballet.
CCA 232.  Museums Today: Content, Practices and Audiences.  (3)
This course examines the ethical and professional framework of contemporary administrative practices, collections management, exhibitions development, and the creation of educational programs and outreach. Attention will be given to how museums and related institutions provide a forum for personal and collective dialogue through diverse methods of interpretation and presentation of historical, cultural, aesthetic, scientific and natural history materials.
CCA 256.  Arts Management Practicum.  (1; maximum 3)
The studio is an opportunity for practical work experience in the field of Arts Management. Under the supervision of a faculty member, students complete experiential on-campus arts management projects in order to understand the role of arts managers in different context.Prerequisite: CCA 201.
CCA 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CCA 299T.  Theatre NYC - Producing.  (3)
Introduces the field of producing at in nonprofit and commercial theatre. The student will gain experience in the all aspects of production including operating, programming, financing, and marketing theatre productions.
CCA 302.  Arts Marketing.  (1.5)
Effective marketing is essential in developing sustainable arts enterprises. This course introduces students to the fundamentals of marketing the arts and the tools utilized by arts marketers to communicate with the audience.Prerequisite: CCA 201.
CCA 303.  Arts Engagement.  (1.5)
The boundaries between arts and audiences are changing. The emerging field of Arts Engagement is creating dynamic new ways to connect with audiences. This course examines the changing relationship between the arts and audiences and the plans and strategies used to increase connectivity with the audience.Prerequisite: CCA 201.
CCA 304.  Financial Managenent in the Arts.  (1.5)
Understanding and applying sound financial management tools are fundamental in creating and maintaining sustainable arts enterprises. This course focuses on understanding the financials challenges faced by the arts and the necessary tools to plan, control, interpret and communicate the financial position of the arts enterprise.Prerequisite: CCA 201.
CCA 305.  Development and Fundraising in the Arts.  (1.5)
An introduction to field of development in the arts focusing on contributed income, donor management and development plan strategies.Prerequisite: CCA 201.
CCA 306.  Arts Entrepreneurship.  (1.5)
In this course students will engage in the practice of arts entrepreneurship and develop the ability to recognize and create opportunities for arts enterprises.Prerequisite: CCA 201.
CCA 307.  Arts Venture Creation.  (1.5)
Students will engage in the entrepreneurial process to create a new arts venture. Students will develop skills in business models, market analysis, attracting funding and business structures.Prerequisites: CCA 201 and CCA 306 or permission of instructor.
CCA 321.  Application in the Integrated Arts and Culture.  (3)
This course focuses on the application of knowledge regarding the integrated arts. A team-based project will put students in multidisciplinary groups that collaboratively research, create and present a particularly important site that demonstrates arts integration. In addition, there will be an individual project that chronicles the student's learnings and asks them to reflect upon the connection of the creative process to their personal experience/environment.Co-requisites: CCA 121 and 221.
CCA 331.  Acting for the Musical Stage.  (3)
This course will focus on the integration of acting, singing and dancing to prepare a song for public performance. Open to students enrolled in the Music Theatre Minor only.Prerequisites: THE 131, MUS 119, CCA 231, one semester of MUS 216.
CCA 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
CCA 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CCA 401.  Strategic Planning for the Arts.  (3)
Strategic planning is fundamental to organizational success. Planning, based on the mission statement, details both artistic and business strategies in order to fulfill the goals of the enterprise. Planning should be entrepreneurial, organized and ongoing. In this course, we will study elements used in planning and create plans for an arts enterprise.Prerequisite: CCA 201 and at least 9 additioinal credit hours in Arts Management course work.
CCA 410.  Advanced Topics in the Creative Arts.  (1-4)
Topics focus on a range of contemporary arts subjects, themes, or issues related to arts management, ethics and leadership; museum studies and practices; creative enterprise and entrepreneurship; among others as extensions of ideas in presented in College of Creative Arts courses and programs.Prerequisites: CCA 201, CCA 340 or permission of the instructor.
CCA 443/CCA 543.  Study Abroad: Arts and Culture.  (6)
Rome-Florence: Arts & Culture is a field-based study abroad course in Italy designed to increase students’ knowledge of the seeds of western culture by learning about the history, art, music and culture of Italy, specifically, Rome and Florence. It blends the highlights of masterworks in art and civilization. In the classroom learning is limited; students will spend their course time exploring Roman ruins such as the Colosseum and the Pantheon, in world’s most famous museums, such as the Vatican Museums, Capitoline Musems and, the Uffizi and Accademia, home to Michelangelo’s David. Concerts of classical music, opera and 21st century Italian film music are included. Italian food, fashion and cooking classes are highlight the course. Since art is a product of society, a history of western culture will be pursued as it affected the development of art and culture. Trips to the island of Capri and the Tuscan city of Siena are included.
CCA 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CCA 677.  Independent Study.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel