Chinese (CHI) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Chinese (CHI)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Chinese (CHI)
Chinese (CHI)
CHI 101.  Elementary Chinese.  (4)
Introduction to modern Mandarin Chinese. Focuses on basic communication skills.
CHI 102.  Elementary Chinese.  (4)
Introduction to modern Mandarin Chinese. Focuses on basic communication skills.Prerequisite: CHI 101 or equivalent.
CHI 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CHI 201.  Second Year Chinese.  (3) (MPT)
Continue to develop skills in speaking, listening, reading, and writing.Prerequisite: CHI 102 or equivalent.
CHI 202.  Second Year Chinese.  (3) (MPT)
Continue to develop skills in speaking, listening, reading, and writing. CAS-A.Prerequisite: CHI 201 or equivalent.
CHI 251.  Traditional Chinese Literature in English Translation.  (3) (MPF)
Chinese literature up to the end of the Qing Dynasty (1911). Introduction of unique features of Chinese literature, society and culture. Study selected classics in Taoism, Confucianism, and Buddhism, and masterpieces in fiction, poetry, and drama. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
CHI 252.  Modern Chinese Literature in English Translation.  (3) (MPF)
Read selected representative works from mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong, including fiction, poetry, criticism, and film. Lectures furnish the socio-cultural background to establish a framework for understanding and interpretation. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
CHI 253.  Three Kingdoms.  (3)
Study the great classic Chinese novel Three Kingdoms (San guo yan yi) (abridged version), supplemented by the Analects of Confucius, the Daodejing and Machiavelli's The Prince. Develops an understanding of character, authority and strategy in traditional Chinese society. In translation. CAS-B-LIT.
CHI 254.  Modern Chinese Autobiography.  (3)
Introduces modern Chinese history and culture through several book-length autobiographies and memoirs. Analyzes modern Chinese self-authored life writing. A series of documentary videos provide surveys of important events in modern China as a complement. Taught in English. CAS-B-LIT.
CHI 255.  Drama in China and Japan in Translation.  (3) (MPF)
Provides historical overview of major traditional dramatic art forms of China and Japan: Zaju, Kunqu, Beijing Opera, Noh, Kyogen, Bunraku, and Kabuki. Critically treats and interprets theatrical conventions in each and attempts to clarify aesthetic significance. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with JPN.
CHI 257.  Chinese Satire.  (3) (MPF)
This course examines several significant works of satire in twentieth-century Chinese literature. Through class discussions, weekly writings and longer essays we will analyze techniques of satire in modern Chinese fiction, identify and assess the ways satirical works shed light on Chinese history, culture and society, and identify and explain the similarities and differences between Chinese and Western satire. Taught in English. IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.
CHI 264.  Chinese Cinema and Culture.  (3)
Study of selected films. Introduces Chinese cinema and, through films, Chinese culture. Works are from mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong. Subject matter is both historical and modern. Knowledge of Chinese is not required.Cross-listed with FST 264.
CHI 271.  Chinese Culture Live.  (1-3)
Offered for study abroad programs in China, the course consists of lectures, trips and practice on topics ranging from history and cultural customs to local cuisine and taiji. Knowledge of Chinese is not required.
CHI 272.  Experience Traditional Chinese Culture.  (3)
Explores traditional Chinese culture in central China and early evolution of the Chinese language through lectures, visits to historical sites and museums, cultural activities and interactions with local people. Prior knowledge of Chinese is not required. Offered for Study Abroad Program in China for summer or winter term.
CHI 273.  Experience Traditional Chinese Culture 2.  (3)
This course continues the study of CHI272, and it explores additional aspects of traditional Chinese culture by visiting different parts of China and conducting comparative analyses. It consists of lectures, visits to historical sites and museums, cultural activities and interactions with local people. Prior knowledge of Chinese is not required. Offered for study abroad program in China for winter or summer term.Co-requisite: CHI 272.
CHI 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CHI 301.  Third Year Chinese.  (3) (MPT)
Develop advanced skills in communication. Expand vocabulary and learn additional, more complicated grammatical structures. Read relatively difficult original materials.Prerequisite: CHI 202 or equivalent.
CHI 302.  Third Year Chinese.  (3)
Develop advanced skills in communication. Expand vocabulary and learn additional, more complicated grammatical structures. Read relatively difficult original materials.Prerequisite: CHI 301 or equivalent.
CHI 311.  Business Chinese I.  (3)
Introduces business terms and expressions with the goal of developing communicative skills in the business related situations. In addition, instruction includes information and knowledge about business practice, etiquette, interpersonal relationship and other social, political and cultural aspects of Chinese business world. The course is on the same level of difficulty as CHI 301, and that is why both have the same prerequisite: Chinese 202. Its main difference from CHI 301 is that its content is much more specialized, as it solely focuses on the Chinese used in business.Prerequisite: CHI 202.
CHI 312.  Business Chinese II.  (3)
Continues the study of business Chinese after CHI 311. It expands students' vocabulary by teaching them an additional 200 business terms and expressions, and introduces them to longer and more difficult sentences so their communicative skills in business related situations will develop further. In addition, it provides information and knowledge about business practice, etiquette, interpersonal relationships, and other social, political and cultural aspects of the Chinese business world not covered in CHI 311. Recommended prerequisite: CHI 311.
CHI 330.  Chinese Verbal Theatre Performance.  (3; maximum 12)
Introduces and provides students with an opportunity to practice various Chinese verbal arts via multiple performance modalities. These include Peking opera, tongue-twisters, comedic dialogue, clapper talk, and poetry recitations. Develops language skills through performance. Recommended prerequisite: CHI 202 or equivalent.
CHI 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CHI 401.  Fourth Year Chinese I.  (3)
Continuing advanced study of Chinese after CHI 302. While the course further develops students' listening and speaking skills, it will place more emphasis on reading and writing than third year Chinese class does. Longer and more challenging authentic materials will be introduced to develop students' overall ability to handle tasks of relatively complex nature. Recommended prerequisite: CHI 302 or equivalent.
CHI 402.  Fourth Year Chinese II.  (3)
This course continues advanced study of Chinese after CHI 401. While the course maintains an emphasis on developing students' oral communication ability, it will also introduce more difficult reading and audio-visual materials in class. Through exposure to these authentic materials, students will further build their vocabulary and increase their comprehension of the target language. In addition the course will help students to gain insights about Chinese society and culture. Recommended prerequisite: CHI 401 or equivalent.
CHI 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CHI 480.  Independent Reading for Departmental Honors.  (1-6)
Departmental honors may be taken for a minimum of three semester hours and a maximum total of six semester hours in senior year.Prerequisite: permission of instructor and department.
CHI 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel