Classics (CLS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Classics (CLS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Classics (CLS)
Classics (CLS)
CLS 101.  Greek Civilization in its Mediterranean Context.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Exploration of ancient Greek civilization, from pre-Homeric to Hellenistic times, presented within a broad framework of cultures with which Greece interacted in the Mediterranean basin. Various aspects of Greek civilization are highlighted including history, politics, economics, society, art, science, philosophy, and literature. IIB. CAS-B-HST.
CLS 102.  Roman Civilization.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Exploration of the legacy of ancient Roman civilization from its legendary beginning through the Republic to the Empire at its greatest extent. Various aspects of Roman civilization highlight the Roman experience including history, literature, philosophy, political and social institutions, religion, art, and the unique ability of Rome to assimilate Greek and other cultures. IIB. CAS-B-HST.
CLS 121.  Introduction to Classical Mythology.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Introduction to Greek mythology. Presentation, explanation, and interpretation of myths within representations of mythology, as well as comparative study of non-Greco-Roman myth. IIB. CAS-B-LIT.
CLS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CLS 210.  Topics in Classics.  (1-3; maximum 12)
Examination of an author, work, topic, or new critical perspective on classical civilization not usually given substantial treatment in regular course offerings. May be repeated three times if topic changes.
CLS 210L.  Ancient Religions.  (3)
Explores the nature of religious practices and beliefs in ancient Greek and Roman societies, how ancient peoples communicated with their gods through sacrifice, prayers, and festivals, and how they believed their gods communicated with them by means of oracles and omens. Students will develop an understanding of topics like divine justice, rites of passage, beliefs and customs associated with death and the afterlife. Though these investigations, students will deepen their knowledge of the ancient cultures while interrogating the concept of religion itself.
CLS 210S.  Roman Spectacle.  (3)
Examines the great spectacle entertainments around which much of Roman society was organized and that filled the public areas of the city: gladiators, chariot races, animal hunts, triumphs, and martyrdoms. Students will explore their types, forms and meanings and engage questions of cultural values, identity and projection of power in a world where death was the common motif in popular entertainment.
CLS 211.  Greek and Roman Epic.  (3) (MPT)
Study of the epic as genre including examination of conventions and techniques of oral and written epic, a discussion of the kind of society which produces such a work, and a study of the epic hero. Works of Homer and Vergil will be read supplemented by readings from other ancient and post-classical authors. CAS-B-LIT.
CLS 212.  Greek and Roman Tragedy.  (3) (MPT)
Study of the origin and development of Greek drama will highlight unique aspects of its fifth century form and dramatic presentation while exploring the reasons for perennial relevance of the extant plays. Selected dramas by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides supplemented with some comparative material from Roman post-classical drama. CAS-B-LIT.
CLS 213.  Greek and Roman Comedy.  (3) (MPT)
Examination of the origin and development of comedy, the particularities of ancient dramatic presentation, and the changing role of comedy in ancient society. Readings from plays of Aristophanes, Menander, Plautus, and Terence supplemented by some comparative material from postclassical drama. CAS-B-LIT.
CLS 215.  Greek and Roman Historians.  (3)
Introduces students to the works of ancient historians, including Herodotus, Thucydides, Livy and Tacitus. Reading the original historians of Greece and Rome as opposed to modern histories will allow students to engage ancient notions of history, historical writing, and the literary efforts that created the histories; students will learn to read history critically, aware of the perspectives and political and social context of the historian and the effect those have on the final work. CAS-B.
CLS 216.  Greek and Roman Cities.  (3)
A visually-oriented course that examines ancient Greek and Roman cities, including Athens, Sparta, and Corinth; Rome, Herculaneum, and Pompeii. Intends to recreate, as much as possible, the experience of living in these cities in order to understand life in the Classical world.
CLS 218.  Greek and Roman Erotic Poetry.  (3) (MPT)
Aims at fostering an understanding of how Greco-Roman poetic forms shaped societal values and visions, especially notions of eroticism and sexuality as they are expressed in ancient poetry. The Greeks developed numerous literary lyric genres, which influenced and even conditioned most of the Western poetic discourse and preceded the ideas of Romanticism. The Romans added to all the Greek genres love elegy and satire, the only genres not inherited from the Greeks, and equally influential for the future generations. Examines a variety of forms and poetic expressions in ancient lyric poetry. The course also aims at understanding the process by which we read different literary genres.
CLS 222.  Race and Ethnicity in Antiquity.  (3) (MPT)
Relies on a variety of primary evidence to study how the Greeks and Romans defined race and ethnicity and how they defined themselves as individual peoples when they confronted cultures and peoples distinctly different from themselves. Examination of the relationship between current theories of race and ethnicity and the theories and practices of the Greeks and Romans.Cross-listed with BWS.
CLS 235.  Women in Antiquity.  (3) (MPT)
Study of the status of women in the Greek and Roman world from Bronze age through early centuries of Christianity conducted in light of literary, artistic, and archaeological evidence in order to increase knowledge and understanding of Greek and Roman family and social life and of our own society as well.Cross-listed with WGS 235.
CLS 254.  Introduction to Russian and Eurasian Studies.  (3) (MPF)
Examines the major developments that have shaped Russian and Eurasian culture, society and politics over the last millenium. The course incorporates perspectives from the social sciences, humanities and the fine arts. Taught in English. IIB. ADVW. CAS-B.Cross-listed with ATH/HST/ITS/POL/REL/RUS.
CLS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CLS 310.  Advanced Topics in Classics.  (1-3; maximum 6)
Examination of an author, work, topic, or new critical perspective on classical civilization not usually given substantial treatment in regular course offerings. May be repeated once if topic changes.
CLS 317.  Greek and Roman Philosophical Writers.  (3) (MPT)
An examination of the philosophy, personalities, and backgrounds of the principal philosophers. Discussions of problems of being and becoming, monism and pluralism, knowledge, value and society. Readings from the pre- Socratics, Plato, Aristotle, Epicurus, Lucretius, Seneca, and Boethius. CAS-B.
CLS 321.  Justice and the Law in Antiquity.  (3) (MPT)
History and development of constitutional and civil law in antiquity with special emphasis on Roman law. Examines ancient jurisprudence and development of the concept of justice. Some comparisons made between ancient and modern legal systems.
CLS 323.  Discoveries of Archaeology.  (3)
ntroductory survey of monumental discoveries (ancient and modern) that have changed and influenced the course of history, intellectual thought, and artistic taste and enlarged and transformed our knowledge of the ancient world. Specific discoveries from selected archaeological sites direct the focus of the course: e.g. Egypt, Troy, Crete, Athena, Delphi, Pompeii, Herculaneum, and Rome.
CLS 325.  Russian Reception of Classical Culture.  (3)
Examines a variety of forms and poetic expressions in both modern (Russian) and ancient poetry. Introduces students to the way in which Russian literature and especially poetry responded to Greco-Roman antiquity. Analyzes how the study of classical antiquity, with its rich mythological tradition and history, represented to the Russian literary elite a window into the West and an opportunity to establish a Russian literary heritage within Western literary canon. All readings in English translation.Cross-listed with RUS 325.
CLS 331.  From Epic to Romance.  (3) (MPT)
Critical survey of novelistic narrative literature in the ancient world, focusing on the so-called ancient novels or ancient romances written in the late hellenistic and imperial period. Begins with the epic ancestors of these works and goes on to modern versions of romance in print and film. CAS-B-LIT.
CLS 332.  Classical Mythology and the Arts.  (3)
Designed to explore the role of arts in the classical world in transmitting the narratives and values inherent in Greek and Roman myths. Will consist of case studies in the use of myth from public and private spheres: the Parthenon sculptures, Herakles and Athenian tyrants of the 6th century, the Niobids, Danaids and Augustan Rome, the reliefs from the Roman amphitheater at Capua, etc. Major topics will be subject selection, composition, context and narrative moment.
CLS 333.  The Greeks in the Near East and Central Asia.  (3)
Studies the impact and the character of intercultural exchange between the Greeks and their eastern neighbors, from Anatolia to Central Asia, paying special attention to the representations of those neighbors in literature. Looks at examples of "orientalist" discourse in epic, tragedy, history, geography, poetry, and the novel, providing an opportunity to reflect on contemporary east/west conflicts.
CLS 334.  Egypt in Greco-Roman History and Fiction.  (3)
Studies Greek and Roman literary texts that represent Egypt: its geography, its customs, its history and its religion, investigating how representations of the Other function to confirm or construct one's own identity, and how those constructions function in various types of literary discourse. Studies numerous genres of writing from antiquity (history, philosophy, drama, poetry, epic, Roman satire, and the novel) to explore the way representations come to substitute for reality, and the consequences of such substitutions.
CLS 336.  Ancient Sexualities.  (3)
Examines the written and visual evidence for ancient sexual practices, as well as ancient attitudes towards these practices as found in ancient law, philosophy, love poetry, novels, and other texts. Our reading of primary sources will be informed by modern writings on gender and sexuality. We will also engage with recent debates about the ideologies reflected in ancient codes of sexual conduct. Through a close reading of a variety of ancient Greek and Roman texts and images, together with contemporary interpretive readings, we will attempt to reach not only a fuller understanding of some central features of the cultures of Greece and Rome, but also, by holding up the mirror of antiquity to our own beliefs and practices, to arrive at a more critical consideration of how we think about sex and gender today.Cross-listed with WGS.
CLS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
CLS 361.  Antiquity Through a Lens.  (3)
Introduces students to filmic projections of classical myths and historical crises. Heightens students' awareness of the ways films construct our images of classical antiquity in the service of contemporary ideological agendas.
CLS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CLS 401.  The Age of Pericles.  (3) (MPC)
Comprehensive study of Athenian civilization from 480 to 429 BC. This is neither a history nor a literature course, but a search for global understanding; attempts to look at a complex period from a variety of angles (political, social, literary, artistic, intellectual) and to find a basis for relating its specific subject matter to other bodies of knowledge and other modes of inquiry.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
CLS 402.  The Age of Augustus.  (3) (MPC)
Comprehensive study of Roman civilization from 63 BC to AD 14, a period that is perhaps the most significant and exciting era in Roman civilization, the culmination of seven centuries of Roman growth and expansion and the prediction of the five centuries of Rome's future. Focus is the concept of leadership in a Roman society that was being transformed from a republic to an empire. Emphasis is not only on the ways in which a leader shapes a society but also on the ways in which a leader is shaped by a many-faceted society.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
CLS 431/CLS 531.  Archaeology of Power.  (3) (MPT)
Examines social and political power in the past, from small scale societies to states and global systems. Explores theoretical approaches to diversity and inequality with case studies from around the world and throughout history that include authority, gender, race, religion, class, colonialism and empire. IC.Cross-listed with CLS 431/CLS 531.
CLS 436.  Havighurst Colloquium.  (3)
Exploration of significant issues related to Russian and post communist affairs. Each semester focuses on a central theme or topic that is examined through presentations, readings, research, discussion, and writing. May be repeated once for credit with only 3 hours counting towards the history major.Cross-listed with ATH/HST/RUS 436/RUS 536; POL 440/POL 540 and REL 470A.
CLS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CLS 480.  Independent Reading for Departmental Honors.  (1-6)
Individually arranged program of study concentrating on a particular author, major work, or significant aspect of ancient culture and society, normally culminating in a substantial research essay and comprehensive examination.Prerequisite: superior performance in course work within department as well as good general academic standing.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel