Community Arts (CMA) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Community Arts (CMA)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Community Arts (CMA)
Community Arts (CMA)
CMA 101.  Introduction to Community Arts.  (1)
This course will explore various definitions of community arts and how it can enhance, inspire, change, and activate the world. Students will explore the various relationships of artists within their communities, the history of such roles, and begin to identify ways in which they can become more involved. Students will be exposed to diverse forms of art and will be encouraged to experiment and broaden their experiences. The course will also connect students to the curriculum of the CMA major.
CMA 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CMA 301.  Community Arts Practicum.  (3)
Placement with an arts facility or organization where students apply their skills and learn new ones. Preparatory classroom component, regular reading and writing assignments, final class presentation, and community project required. Open only to students in the Community Arts major. EL.Prerequisite: NCS 202 and Junior standing.
CMA 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
CMA 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CMA 401.  Capstone in Community Arts.  (3) (MPC)
A culminating experience for CMA seniors focused on the supervised development of individual, professional-level projects. This may involve participation in a group or solo gallery exhibition, creative theatrical or musical performance, and/or writing project connected to such events.Prerequisite: senior standing.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel