Comparative Media Studies (CMS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Comparative Media Studies (CMS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Comparative Media Studies (CMS)
Comparative Media Studies (CMS)
CMS 101.  The Smartphone and Society.  (3) (MPF)
Explores the impact of media and communication technologies on our individual lives as well as wider political, economic, and cultural practices. This course will help students to think critically about the tools they use in their everyday lives and the ways in which technology and society mutually shape each other. IIB. CAS-B.
CMS 225.  Linking Film and New Media.  (3)
This course will consider the challenge new media present to cinema's primacy, but also the ways in which cinema survives and thrives in a digital age. While acknowledging what is unique to different new media forms, we will also identify the aspects of new media that are not fully "new" by examining their dependence on styles, structures, narratives, and even actual footage from cinema and other "old" media. Conversely, we will uncover how new media have reshaped cinema through influences such as CGI, video games, and digital editing.Prerequisite: CMS 201 or FST 201.
CMS 301.  Comparative Approaches to Media Studies.  (3)
Introduces students to aesthetic, cultural, historical, political economic, and media effects approaches in media studies, and describes how these various
approaches pose problems related to the interrelationships between media texts, audiences, technologies and industries, and the wider social worlds in which they are embedded. Students are exposed to the basic methodologies associated with these approaches - semiotics, ethnography, historical method, grounded theory and quantitative analysis - and learn how these methods are used to investigate questions about human engagements with media.
CMS 350.  Special Topics in Comparative Media Studies.  (3)
Students will build upon and apply key concepts in the comparative study of media to a special topic.
CMS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
CMS 401.  Senior Seminar in Comparative Media Studies.  (3)
Advanced exploration of topics in comparative media studies.Prerequisite: CMS 301.
CMS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel