Critical Race and Ethnic Studies (CRE) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Critical Race and Ethnic Studies (CRE)
Critical Race and Ethnic Studies (CRE)
CRE 151.  Introduction to Critical Race and Ethnic Studies.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
This course will introduce students to the core concepts and theories used in the critical study of race and ethnicity. It will examine historical and contemporary formations of race, ethnicity, and indigeneity to provide an understanding of how social difference is made, reinforced, and challenged in local, national, and global contexts. Topics include: theories of race and ethnicity; settler colonialism and slavery; citizenship and inequality; immigration and segregation; multiculturalism and colorblindness; decolonial and anti-racist struggles; and globalization and new racisms. IIB, IIC, IC. CAS-B. CAS-C.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel