Disability Studies (DST) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Disability Studies (DST)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Disability Studies (DST)
Disability Studies (DST)
DST 101.  Beginning ASL I.  (4)
This course will introduce conversationally relevant signs, fingerspelling, grammatical sign principles and background information related to deaf culture with the objective of teaching students to sign and understand ASL with increasing ability.Cross-listed with SPA.
DST 102.  Beginning ASL II.  (4)
The Beginning II course is a continuation of the Beginning ASL I course. This course will continue to introduce conversationally relevant signs, grammatical principles, and background information related to the Deaf culture with the objective of teaching students to sign and understand ASL with an increasing ability at the ACTFL proficiency intermediate low-mid level (Swender, Conrad, & Vicars, 2012). Swender, E., Conrad, D. J., & Vicars, R. (2012). ACTFL proficiency guidelines 2012. ACTFL, INC.Prerequisite: DST/SPA 101 or SPA 248.
DST 169.  Disability and Literature.  (3) (MPF)
This course studies the construction of disability identity in literature, personal memoir, and popular culture by investigating how texts that feature disability question notions of "normalcy" and "deviancy." It emphasizes interdisciplinary understandings of disability in historical and contemporary frameworks. IC, IIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with ENG 169.
DST 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
DST 201.  Intermediate ASL I.  (3)
The Intermediate ASL I course is a continuation of the Beginning ASL II course. This course will continue to address conversationally relevant signs, grammatical principles, and background information related to the Deaf culture with the objective of teaching students to proficiently sign and understand ASL with an increasing ability dictated by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages' proficiency intermediate mid-high level.Prerequisite: DST/SPA 102.Cross-listed with SPA.
DST 202.  Intermediate American Sign Language II.  (3)
Intermediate ASL II is the fourth course in the American Sign Language curriculum. Students will continue to develop ASL communication skills receptively and expressively through continued vocabulary and grammar instruction. Deaf culture concepts will be expanded upon with course instruction presented primarily in ASL. In addition, students will partake in service learning opportunities so the student can partake in mastery of ASL and to become assimilated with Deaf culture values.Prerequisite: DST/SPA 201 or equivalent.Cross-listed with SPA.
DST 272.  Introduction to Disability Studies.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Explores the link between the social construction of disability and that of race, class, gender, ethnicity, and sexual orientation as they pertain to social justice in a multicultural and democratic society. Promotes critical analysis of dominant and nondominant perspectives on disability. IC, IIC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with EDP/SOC.
DST 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
DST 278.  Women and (Dis)ability: Fictions and Contaminations of Identity.  (3)
Provides a critical analysis of the historical, sociological, cultural, media and educational images and representations of women with disabilities. Current research and theories from Disabilities Studies and Womens Studies will serve as the lenses for the exploration of disability as a social construct. The course will focus on exploration of oppressive social forces embedded in the re/presentations of and by women with disabilities which transform and complicate such images.Cross-listed with EDP/WGS.
DST 312.  Deaf Culture: Global, National and Local Issues.  (3) (MPF)
This course is intended to provide a comprehensive orientation to the Deaf and hard-of-hearing communities in continents around the globe. Students will learn the basic vocabulary and grammar of American Sign Language. Consideration will also be given to sign systems in Europe and the U.S. The students will be introduced to the sociolinguistic aspects of educational, political and environmental impacts on Deaf culture, identity, and language. IC, IIC, IIIB.Cross-listed with SPA.
DST 315.  Disability History in America.  (3) (MPF)
An introduction to the history of disabilities in America, providing an overview of major themes, events, individuals, policy developments and political and social activism of, by, and for people with disabilities, as well as an introduction to the historical subfield of history of disabilities. IIB, IC.Cross-listed with EDL.
DST 375.  (Dis)Ability Allies: To be or not to be? Developing Identity and Pride from Practice.  (3)
Explores what it means to be ally to/in/with the disability community in America. The course emphasizes identity formation and how that formation can inform the construction of the ally identity. Through deconstructing learned values, knowledge, and images of disability that mitigate ally behavior, students discover the micro and macro structures that support ally behavior. By exploring how social control and social change have worked in other civil rights movements, students understand the necessity of identifying and including allies in the disability movement for civil rights. IC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with EDP/SOC/WGS.
DST 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
DST 378.  Media Illusions: Creations of "The Disabled" Identity.  (3)
Provides a critical analysis of past and present media constructions of persons with disabilities. Through exploring theory and research from diverse disciplines (communication, sociology, gerontology, educational psychology and others), students explore how perceptions of persons with disability are formed and analyze how the media is implicated in creating, distorting, and reflecting stereotypical and fictionalized images of disability. The course analyzes how these images shape public perception and reproduce the unequal power and privilege relationships that maintain the status quo while providing resources and techniques for the provision of alternative images of disability in various media genres.Cross-listed with EDP.
DST 470.  Social/Political Activism.  (3) (MPC)
Provides students with the opportunity to explore how indigenous groups effect change in their communities.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153, or SOC/SJS 165, or CRE 151.Cross-listed with BWS/SJS/SOC.
DST 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
DST 494.  Disability in Global and Local Contexts.  (3) (MPC)
Examines contemporary disability issues and policies and the lived experiences of persons with disabilities in international and local contexts, with emphasis on understanding disability within particular communities, both locally and in other countries, and on learning multiple research methods. IC.Prerequisite: Permission of instructor.Cross-listed with ENG 494 and EDP 489.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel