Educational Psychology (EDP) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Educational Psychology (EDP)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Educational Psychology (EDP)
Educational Psychology (EDP)
EDP 101.  Psychology Of The Learner.  (3) (MPF)
Critical investigation of issues, theories, and principles related to the nature of the learner and learning process, including such topics as psychological methodology, perception, cognitive processing, personality, and social dynamics, within the context of historical, social diversity, and cross-cultural perspectives. Credit not granted to students who have earned credit in PSY 111. IIC. CAS-C.
EDP 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDP 201.  Human Development and Learning in Social and Educational Contexts.  (3) (MPF)
In-depth examination of theoretical issues and principles of human development and learning, including developmental changes, motivational and learning processes, exceptionalities and other individual differences, and dynamics of social groups. The ways human development and learning can be fostered within diverse social and educational contexts and the interactive influences of contextual differences on direction and nature of these processes are a major focus for systematic inquiry. IIC. CAS-C.
EDP 220.  Field Experience in Special Education.  (1)
Structured experiences for students to visit special education settings and inclusive settings serving individuals with a variety of exceptionalities, including early childhood, middle childhood, and adolescence. Restricted to special education pre-majors. Pre or co-requisite: EDP 256.
EDP 256.  Psychology of the Exceptional Learner.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Critical analysis of human beings considered exceptional (outside the norm) in learning and behavior. Topics include inter- and intra-individual differences comprising exceptionalities, issues surrounding identification and classification of individuals, society's responses to exceptional individuals, and societal challenges to develop the human potential of all persons. IIC.
EDP 272.  Introduction to Disability Studies.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Explores the link between the social construction of disability and that of race, class, gender, ethnicity, and sexual orientation as they pertain to social justice in a multicultural and democratic society. Promotes critical analysis of dominant and nondominant perspectives on disability. IC, IIC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with DST/SOC.
EDP 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDP 278.  Women and (Dis)ability: Fictions and Contaminations of Identity.  (3)
Provides a critical analysis of the historical, sociological, cultural, media and educational images and representations of women with disabilities. Current research and theories from Disabilities Studies and Womens Studies will serve as the lenses for the exploration of disability as a social construct. The course will focus on exploration of oppressive social forces embedded in the re/presentations of and by women with disabilities which transform and complicate such images.Cross-listed with DST/WGS.
EDP 279.  Technology  + Media Literacy and Learning.  (3) (MPF)
Technology + Media Literacy and Learning is a 3 credit hour course to foster technology and media literacy for undergraduate students in teacher preparation programs. This course focuses fostering knowledge in skills and integration of technology tools, media and digital resources for teaching and learning. IIC.
EDP 301.  Assessment and Evaluation in Educational Settings.  (3)
Application of measurement principles in the assessment of individual differences and learning in educational environments. Includes: formative, summative and diagnostic testing, instructional objectives and classroom tests, judging complex performance, and social and political issues with administration and interpretation of evaluation instruments.Prerequisite: EDP 101 or 201 and junior standing.
EDP 301A.  Assessment and Evaluation in Educational Settings.  (3)
Application of measurement principles in the assessment of individual differences and learning in educational environments. Includes: formative, summative and diagnostic testing, instructional objectives and classroom tests, judging complex performance, and social and political issues with administration and interpretation of evaluation instruments.Prerequisite: EDP 101 or 201 and junior standing.
EDP 301M.  Assessment and Evaluation in Educational Settings.  (3)
Application of measurement principles in the assessment of individual differences and learning in educational environments. Includes: formative, summative and diagnostic testing, instructional objectives and classroom tests, judging complex performance, and social and political issues with administration and interpretation of evaluation instruments.Prerequisite: EDP 101 or 201 and junior standing.
EDP 324.  Research and Applied Writing Across the Disciplines.  (3) (MPT)
This is a three-credit hour GMP Advanced Writing course that will provide the opportunity for students to be mentored through the development of a research proposal, a literature review, and/or develop a manuscript for publication and/or a poster presentation. The overall goal of this course is to guide students in learning to develop research in their chosen field of study and write effectively using APA style for general population. Writing exercises will take the form of assignments that require the student to develop successive sections of the research proposal or other writing project until it is complete. Students will learn to (a) identify the attributes of a well written proposal, paper or poster, (b) search and cite in proper APA formatting appropriate, relevant literature (c) develop an awareness of plagiarism and ethics in science writing, (d) understand the role of constructive, critical feedback and editing and revising their writing. ADVW.
EDP 332.  Instructional Design Theory and Models.  (3)
This course is designed for students interested in exploring formal models for the design of instruction. Most commonly, these models are applied to technology-based instruction. Major models of instructional design are surveyed with an emphasis on cognitive theory, instructional design as an area of research, and instructional design as procedural knowledge. The course features implementation activities, enabling students to apply the conceptual processes described in the course.
EDP 333.  Evaluation and Assessment for Instructional Design.  (3)
Evaluation and Assessment for Instructional Design provides students with theories and practice related to needs assessment, formative and summative evaluation. At the end of the semester students should be able to assess and evaluate instructional media.
EDP 351.  Miami Connections Mentoring.  (1)
This course involves students in an on-campus mentoring experience working with local high school students enrolled in the Miami Connections (Oxford) or Miami Bridges (Middletown) program. It is open to students of any major who are interested in service learning. Background checks and a one-year commitment are required.
EDP 357.  Student Mental Health.  (3)
Student mental health examines the critical issues that education and community professionals as well as parents and the general public need to address in regards to the mental health of young people in the 21st century. Throughout this course, the Response to Intervention (RTI) model with tiered intervention is followed along with the necessity of intergrating therapeutic services and practices into the school setting. Essential mental health topics and practices such as screening for at-risk students, culturally sensitive practices, crisis intervention, suicide prevention/intervention, bullying, cyberbullying, drug/alcohol abuse, and physical/sexual abuse are covered.
EDP 366.  Cross-cultural Examination of the United States and China within an Educational Context.  (3) (MPF)
This course is designed for students to gain basic knowledge, including both similarities and differences, revolving about China and America, in an educational context. The goal of this course is to help students broaden their knowledge about varying cultures in order to better understand how teachers can best help students learn and grow. The students will gain a deeper understanding of China and America and what each country faces in the years to come. Students will focus on the challenges and opportunities each culture provides to individuals through examining similarities and differences. Students will explore different culture related topics and come to a conclusion regarding their pre and post conceptions of the topic. Students will explore and research one topic more in depth to prepare for a research paper.Cross-listed with EDL.
EDP 375.  (Dis)Ability Allies: To be or not to be? Developing Identity and Pride from Practice.  (3)
Explores what it means to be ally to/in/with the disability community in America. The course emphasizes identity formation and how that formation can inform the construction of the ally identity. Through deconstructing learned values, knowledge, and images of disability that mitigate ally behavior, students discover the micro and macro structures that support ally behavior. By exploring how social control and social change have worked in other civil rights movements, students understand the necessity of identifying and including allies in the disability movement for civil rights. IC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with DST/SOC/WGS.
EDP 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDP 378.  Media Illusions: Creations of "The Disabled" Identity.  (3)
Provides a critical analysis of past and present media constructions of persons with disabilities. Through exploring theory and research from diverse disciplines (communication, sociology, gerontology, educational psychology and others), students explore how perceptions of persons with disability are formed and analyze how the media is implicated in creating, distorting, and reflecting stereotypical and fictionalized images of disability. The course analyzes how these images shape public perception and reproduce the unequal power and privilege relationships that maintain the status quo while providing resources and techniques for the provision of alternative images of disability in various media genres.Cross-listed with DST.
EDP 387.  Chinese Education through Culture, Customs, History, and Development.  (3)
This course is designed for students to gain basic knowledge about the history and culture of China. The goal of this workshop is to help students gain international experiences and global perspectives on history (the past, present, and future) of China, the culture, and any related issues in order to build and enhance students' ability to work successfully in a global setting. Students will be paired with Chinese students from two universities in a large city and a small or medium sized city, respectively. Students may travel and visit different types of organizations, historical and cultural sites, as well as Chinese families in China. Travels will either be completed in actuality or virtually through the internet and other technological sources. Students will also attend lectures by carefully selected company executives and professors from both the US and China if actually traveling to China. Small group meetings and informal interviews during the travel in China will be conducted to enhance student's understanding of the observations and lectures.Cross-listed with EDP.
EDP 405/EDP 505.  Advanced Issues: Moderate/Intensive Special Education.  (3)
The course examines critical issues in educating students with moderate and intensive disabilities. Students will learn key issues and challenges in person centered planning, effective collaboration, community and wraparound supports, and advocacy that promote fully inclusive lives across school and community environments for individuals with moderate and intensive disabilities.Prerequisite: EDP 256.
EDP 419F.  Supervised Teaching in Programs for Mild/Moderate Intervention Specialist Licensure.  (15)
Includes regularly scheduled seminars with university supervisor. Frequent conferences held with cooperating teacher.Prerequisite: all EDP and required EDT methods classes.
EDP 432/EDP 532.  Assessment and Educational Planning for Children in Preschool through Fifth Grade.  (3)
Discusses development and use of formal and informal assessment instruments and procedures, including observational, authentic, performance-based, classroom test, and standardized methods to plan curriculum and teaching practices with attention to interaction of individual differences with learning environments for children in preschool through fifth grade who are developing typically, have disabilities, or are at biological or environment risk for developmental delay. Emphasizes interdisciplinary, transdisciplinary, and multifactored approaches to assessment, developing individualized educational plans, and planning curriculum objectives based on assessment information. Early childhood undergraduates must take with junior field block.Prerequisite: EDP 201.
EDP 443/EDP 543.  Audiovisual Instruction: Methods, Media, and Technology.  (3)
Develops media skills that aid communication. Stresses selection, use, and preparation of educational media in instructional planning. Includes laboratories in basic production processes and equipment operation. Because of greater content and additional projects, this course may be substituted for technology requirement.
EDP 446.  Educational Interactive Design.  (3)
This course focuses on developing an understanding of theory and production of interactive technologies and media for teaching and learning. While the emphasis will be on educational and training application, this course will also look at how interactive media can be used in non-traditional educational environments.
EDP 447/EDP 547.  eLearning in K-12 Education.  (3) (MPC)
This course surveys models of eLearning in K-12 educational environments and focuses on developing an understanding of the current state of eLearning in K-12 schools ranging from classroom examples to fully online and distance learning environments. This course provides experience in (1) evaluating electronic resources for use in eLearning environments, (2) designing and developing eLearning instructional modules for online learning systems, (3) planning for use of eLearning tools in assessment. This course will provide both a broad overview of the emerging role of eLearning in K-12 education as well as opportunities to design eLearning materials for students' unique major/career emphasis.
EDP 450/EDP 550.  Special Problems.  (1-4)
Course in varying special topics areas.
EDP 454/EDP 554.  Mathematics Curriculum & Adaptations for Children with Mild/Moderate Disabilities.  (3)
Provides instruction on mathematics curriculum, methods, and materials for adapting instruction for individuals with mild/moderate exceptionalities in various educational settings, K-12. Emphasizes developmentally, culturally, and individually appropriate adaptations in mathematics with a goal toward giving students access to and success with general educational standards in the curriculum.
EDP 456/EDP 556.  Advanced Seminar in Evaluation with Evidence-Based Interventions.  (3)
Advanced seminar oriented toward the development of competencies in formative assessment and teaching using evidence-based interventions (EBIs). Students will learn to lesson plan with EBIs and to evaluate student performance and responsiveness to interventions using formative assessments, assessment systems, and reflective journaling. There is a service component required in this course involving the provision of interventions to children who are struggling learners and/or English Language Learners. Upon completion of the course, students will be able to evaluate EBIs, collect and make sense of instructional data, and have the necessary elements to write and/or contribute to a report on a student's responsiveness to intervention.Prerequisite: School Psychology Program Admission and/or Senior status as a Special Education Student for Capstone Course.
EDP 458/EDP 558.  Methods I: Learners with Moderate to Intensive Needs.  (3)
Focuses on curricular and instructional strategies for supporting learners aged 5-21 who have moderate to intensive needs in inclusive school settings. Empahsizes planning and implementing developmentally, culturally and individually appropriate practices and methods for successful learning, using principles of Universal Design for Learning, inclusive practice and evidence based practice in transition planning.
EDP 459/EDP 559.  Practicum in Special Education.  (3; maximum 3)
Provides guided field experiencees in instructing children with mild/moderate disabilities. Focus is on application of theory and research in curriculum development, educational technology, applied behavior analysis, assessment, and the development of instructional skills.Prerequisite: EDP 256.Co-requisite: EDP 495/EDP 595.
EDP 459G.  Practicum in Special Education: Moderate/Intensive.  (3)
Provides guided field experience in instructing children with moderate/intensive needs. Focus is on the application of theory and research in curriculum development, educational technology, applied behavior analysis, and the development of instructional skills.Prerequisite: EDP 457.Co-requisite: EDP 458/EDP 558/558.
EDP 460.  Action Research/Problem-Based Seminar in Exceptional Education/Developmental Differences.  (3) (MPC)
Provides opportunity to develop, implement, and evaluate an action research or action service project related to identification, psychology, education, and/or treatment of individuals whose development is exceptional. Provides intensive seminar; instructor and peers share the research/problem-solving process and prepare written and oral reports that describe the project and document the student's accomplishments.Prerequisite: senior standing.
EDP 468/EDP 568.  Methods II for Learners with Moderate - Intensive Needs.  (3)
The course is focused on student centered planning to examine curricular and instructional methods and strategies for supporting children and youth who have moderate/intensive needs in inclusive settings. This course emphasizes planning and implementing individually appropriate methods, assessments, goals, adaptations and accommodations in inclusive settings.Prerequisites: EDP 256 and EDP 458/EDP 558.
EDP 471/EDP 571.  Literacy Seminar: Clinical.  (3; maximum 6) (MPC)
Problem-based seminar designed to provide opportunities for students to learn, practice, and evaluate instructional approaches to teaching literacy skills (reading, writing, and spelling) to school-age children with written language disabilities. Students receive intensive training in literacy and work in tutorial settings. Seminar discussions focus on issues of literacy skills, and approaches for working with these children.
EDP 472/EDP 572.  Literacy Seminar: Practicum.  (3; maximum 6)
Explores reading methods and strategies outside of the standard for learners with excptionalities; explores technology as a means to accessible literacy.Prerequisite: EDP 256 and EDP 494/EDP 594.
EDP 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDP 478/EDP 578.  Effective Social Skills Development, Collaboration and Transition Planning in Special Education.  (3)
Examines impact of exceptionality on families. Emphasizes home-school relationships, resource development, and collaboration between professionals and parents. Emphasizes communication, collaboration and conflict resolution skills. Explores the legal mandates for transition planning and need for community resources. Examines methods for developing social and affective skills in children and youth with exceptionalities.
EDP 479/EDP 579.  Autism: Introduction and Current Research.  (3)
This course provides an overview of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). The course content examines the psychological, social, and educational characteristics of individuals who have been identified as having ASD. Prevalence rates, recent changes in definition/diagnostic criteria (e.g., DSM-5) and controversial issues will be reviewed.
EDP 482/EDP 582.  Autism Spectrum Disorder: Best Practice in Teaching Strategies.  (3)
This course will focus on evidence-based teaching strategies for the children with Autism Spectrum Disorder in the inclusive classroom. Students will learn best practice in classroom instruction, including integrating technology and visual supports into the classroom for students with Autism Spectrum Disorder.
EDP 483/EDP 583.  Game-based Learning Design.  (3)
This course offers students the opportunity to explore the use of games and simulated environments for teaching and learning. The three main topics investigated in this course are: (a) the integration of popular games for teaching and learning, (b) serious and educational games, and (c) the integration of game design elements for teaching and learning. In addition, this course aids students in understanding how learning theories can inform the design of serious and educational games for instructional design.Prerequisite: junior/senior or graduate standing.
EDP 484/EDP 584.  Autism Spectrum Disorder: Social and Communication Development.  (3)
This course provides an overview of the unique communication and social characteristics of individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and teaches an array of strategies and methods for developing social and communication skills. Appropriate supportive frameworks to enhance social and communication development will be explored.
EDP 485/EDP 585.  Autism Spectrum Disorder: Positive Behavior Supports and Interventions.  (3)
This course will focus on evidence-based behavioral supports & interventions for the inclusive classroom for students with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Students will learn best practices in behavior management, including components of Applied Behavior Analysis, positive reinforcement, contingency plans and token economy systems.
EDP 486/EDP 586.  Methods I: Learners with Mild/Moderate Disabilities.  (3)
The content of this course will examine the roles assessment, instructional ramework, and implementation of evidenced based practice have on the development and progress towards the academic and behaviorial goals or students with mild to moderate disabilities. A lifespan view of intervention models that will support inclusive practices that provide access to general education curriculum will be explored.Prerequisites: EDP 201, EDP 220 and EDP 256.
EDP 489.  Disability in Global and Local Contexts.  (3) (MPC)
Examines contemporary disability issues and policies and the lived experiences of persons with disabilities in international and local contexts, with emphasis on understanding disability within particular communities-both locally and in other countries-and on learning multiple research methods. IC.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.Cross-listed with DST/ENG 494.
EDP 491/EDP 591.  Methods II: Learners with Mild to Moderate Disabilities.  (3)
The content of this course will examine the roles assessment, instructional ramework, and implementation of evidenced based practice have on the development and progress towards the academic and behaviorial goals or students with Learning Disabilities, Mild Cognitive Disabilities and Behavior disorder. A lifespan view of intervention models that will support inclusive practices that provide access to general education curriculum will be explored.Prerequisites: EDP 256.
EDP 494/EDP 594.  Assessment, Evaluation, and Educational Planning for Learners with Exceptionalities.  (3)
Construction and use of formal, informal, and authentic assessment related to adapting content and teaching strategies in reading, spelling, writing, oral communication, mathematics, and other areas for children and youth with exceptionalities (including individuals with mild/moderate and moderate/intensive needs; gifted).
EDP 495/EDP 595.  Critical Inquiry in Special Education.  (3)
Critical inquiry in special education provides future teachers with the skills they need to become scholarly lifelong learners. Using methods for conducting systematic literature searches, the student will critically analyze an area of interest related to special education for further exploration and to advance depth of student understanding that will culminate into a written paper and public presentation. The student will also learn about methods for collecting data and develop competency in professional writing.Co-requisite: EDP 459F/559F, 459G/559G, or 459H/559H.
EDP 495E.  Inclusion and Adaptations for Students with Mild/Moderate and Gifted Needs in PreK to 5 Classrooms.  (3)
Provides instruction on adapting curriculum, methods, and materials for individuals with mild/moderate exceptionalities and/or giftedness in inclusive settings. Emphasizes adaptations in reading, math, social studies, science, and language arts as developmentally and culturally appropriate for children in preschool through fifth grade.Prerequisite: EDP 256.
EDP 496/EDP 596.  Behavioral Interventions: Theory, Principles, and Techniques.  (3)
Emphasizes theoretical foundations of the behavioral model with supporting research. Presents a variety of proactive techniques for increasing appropriate behavior and for prevention and reduction of problematic behaviors. Emphasizes positive, proactive treatment approaches using the least restrictive treatment model for individual and group interventions. Addresses applications for individuals with exceptionalities mild/moderate, moderate/intensive, and gifted.Co-requisite: specialist methods block (EDP 495/EDP 595).
EDP 600.  Independent Reading.  (1-5; maximum 8)
Planned reading in any field related to educational psychology with faculty guidance.Prerequisite: regular standing in graduate school, eight hours in education including four hours graduate credit, and approval of plan by department chair.
EDP 601.  Advanced Educational Psychology.  (3)
Prepares student to critically evaluate existing educational practice and to innovate sound practices in light of theoretical and empirical findings of educational psychology.Prerequisite: eight hours of education including educational psychology.
EDP 603.  Theories of Human Learning.  (3)
Examines major theoretical perspectives concerning the process of how human beings learn. Historical, as well as contemporary views of the biological, behavioral and cognitive bases of human learning are presented. Considers how cultures (ethnic, gender, and systemic) influence the process and mode of learning. Involves direct application of theoretical approaches to classroom instruction. Critical analysis of these theories and current research are emphasized to facilitate students' understanding of the complex process of learning.
EDP 604.  Role and Function of the School Psychologist.  (3)
Survey of current practices in the field of school psychology and examination of emerging models. Attention to school psychological service in the organization of schools, relationships with other pupil personnel workers, ethics, state standards, and various other related issues.Prerequisite: admission to school psychology program or permission of instructor.
EDP 605F.  Supervised Field Experience: Mild/Moderate Intervention Specialist.  (1-12)
Full-time supervised field experience in student's area of specialization. Experience provided at early, middle, and/or adolescent levels within current program models and standards.Prerequisite: admission to graduate program in special education and completion of all course work in the licensure area.
EDP 607.  Educational Measurement and Evaluation.  (3)
Principles of measurement and evaluation applied to educational contexts. Includes instructional objectives, construction of teacher-made tests, assessing complex performance, determining grades, standardized testing, measuring individual differences, and using test data for decision-making.
EDP 611.  Psychoeducational Assessment and Interventions I.  (5)
Provides foundation in a variety of assessment areas and methodologies that lead to development, implementation, and evaluation of interventions. The school psychologist is viewed as a scientist practitioner using a problem-solving orientation in working with students experiencing behavioral and/or academic problems. Emphasis on analyses of assessment information with the goal of developing successful interventions.Prerequisite: admission to school psychology program.
EDP 612.  Psychoeducational Assessment and Interventions II.  (5)
Provides foundation in a variety of assessment areas and methodologies that lead to development, implementation, and evaluation of interventions. The school psychologist is viewed as a scientist practitioner using a problem-solving orientation in working with students experiencing behavioral and/or academic problems. Emphasis on analyses of assessment information with the goal of developing successful interventions.-Prerequisite: admission to school psychology program.
EDP 620.  Research Project.  (1-3)
Individual research to satisfy research project requirement for master's degree.Prerequisite: EDP 651, 667, and permission of department chair.
EDP 631.  Foundations of Instructional Design and Technology.  (3)
This course provides a foundation of Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) and an overview of the field a. Students will learn about the theoretical foundations of the field and of the program. Some software will be introduced.
EDP 632.  Instructional Design Theory and Models.  (3)
This course provides an opportunity for students to analyze, synthesize, and evaluate instructional design models based on learning theories and principles, while taking into account various situations and differences of learners. Students will acquire the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to provide leadership in the area of instructional design.
EDP 633.  Formative/Summative Evaluation of Learning Design.  (3)
Formative and Summative evaluation provides students with theories and practice related to conducting needs analysis and formative and summative evaluations. At the end of the semester students should be able to assess and evaluate instructional media.
EDP 635.  Theories of Human Development.  (3)
Involves broad perspective of human development with primary focus upon theories as well as historically significant and contemporary research. Theoretical and research applications considered within the context of educational settings and in other areas of helping professions.
EDP 636.  Diversity, Learning & Technology.  (3)
The purpose of this course is to explore the mutual impact of diverse learner populations and technology. The focus of this course is to explore instructional design of media and technology integration that supports learner diversity in all forms. Special attention is devoted to how instructional design can support and foster inclusion of traditionally underrepresented learner populations (ESOL, special education, non-traditional learners, and economic disadvantaged learners). The goals of this course are to provide strategies for designing curriculum and instruction using technology for meeting the needs of diverse, multicultural, special needs, and at-risk learners in k-12 schools. Students will engage in global connections, exploration, and analysis of various technologies to differentiate and/or accommodate instruction for students with diverse learning styles and special needs. This course will emphasize Universal Design as an inclusive model for technology integration.
EDP 637.  Blended and Online Learning Design.  (3)
This course teaches concepts and design for blended and online learning. In addition, this course aids students, teachers and instructional designers in the development of distance education concepts: theory, administration, programs, methods, practice and curriculum development.
EDP 639.  Trends in Learning Design and Analytics.  (3)
The intent of the course is to acquaint instructional technologists, teachers and administrators with critical challenges posed as a result of the increasing infusion of technology and learning analytics into the school and training environments. Students will exchange ideas about issues and trends with others through reports and leading discussions.
EDP 641.  Visual Design for Instruction.  (3)
This course is designed to provide participants with a sense of how visual images can be employed in the instructional design process. Digital imagery, visual design, motion design and imaging software are vehicles for studying the use of visual images in training and education.
EDP 643.  Interactive Design.  (3)
This course focuses on developing an understanding of theory and production of interactive design primarily for teaching and learning. While the emphasis will be on educational and training application, this course will also look at how interactive media can be used in non-traditional educational environments.
EDP 645.  Curriculum and Technology.  (3)
This class is designed to support P-12 educators in addressing the mutual impact of technology and curriculum and integrating technology to enhance teaching and learning. The focus is to produce teacher-created, learner-centered materials for effective technology integration. Class participants will work both independently and collaboratively to develop curriculum and to design a project that integrates technology for effective teaching or learning.
EDP 648.  Capstone Project.  (3-6; maximum 6)
Each student in the MA in Instructional Design & Technology or the MEd in Educational Technology are required to complete an experiential learning capstone project. Students will be guided to initiate a proposed topic. Each student in tandem with her/his faculty advisor will determine negotiate the scope, scale, criteria, and evaluation of the project.Prerequisites: Completion of at least eight of the program courses.
EDP 650.  Seminar in Special Education.  (3; maximum 9)
In-depth study of specific topics in education of exceptional children and youth. Maximum hours toward graduate degree in special education are 16. Topics will be announced.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
EDP 651.  Educational Research.  (3)
Introduction to and critical study of research practices and reporting processes.
EDP 652.  Educational Research Practicum.  (3)
Practicum in research.Prerequisite: EDP 651.
EDP 654.  Counseling Practicum.  (4; maximum 4)
Supervised counseling experience.Prerequisite: EDP 672 and permission of instructor.
EDP 655.  Theory and Problems in Educational Measurement.  (3)
General concepts of reliability and validity and their implications in educational measurement are discussed. Interpretations and misinterpretations are presented with regard to standardized testing as well as seminar approaches to current issues and problems in educational measurement.Prerequisite: EDP 667.
EDP 656.  Education of Individuals with Exceptionalities.  (3)
Advanced analysis of each exceptionality from an educational point of view. Topics include inclusion, inter- and intra-individual differences comprising exceptionalities, issues surrounding identification, classification of individuals, society's responses to exceptional individuals, and societal changes to develop the human potential of all persons.
EDP 660.  Practicum in School Psychology Practice.  (4; maximum 4)
Supervised practice using a variety of diagnostic/consultative procedures to discover nature and underlying causes of school difficulties and familiarization with current school psychology practice.Prerequisite: at least 10 hours credit in study of individual psychological tests and approval of instructor.
EDP 662.  Social, Emotional, and Behavioral Assessment.  (3)
Discussion of normal and abnormal personality with emphasis on personality structure and dynamics of school aged children. Introduction to certain personality measures/techniques and implications for their use are examined.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
EDP 666.  Educational Consultation, Collaboration, and Community Psychology.  (3)
Application of consultation and collaboration processes to the school setting. Utilization of community and school resources in the prevention and resolution of child and adolescent behavior and learning problems. Methods, techniques, and skills in interviewing, consultation, collaboration, and mental health practices.Prerequisite: graduate standing and approval of the instructor.
EDP 667.  Behavioral Statistics I.  (3)
Basic concepts of descriptive and inferential statistics. Stresses logical interpretation of results.
EDP 669.  Qualitative Research in Educational Psychology.  (3)
Offers a case study approach (as opposed to ethnography or action research) to qualitative research consistent with educational psychology research methods.Prerequisite: graduate standing.
EDP 672.  Counseling Theories and Issues.  (3)
Developing understanding of the nature of the counseling relationship.Prerequisite: graduate standing.
EDP 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDP 688.  Introduction to Data Management and Analysis.  (3)
Introduction to foundational methods and techniques in data preparation, screening, management, analysis, and presentation. Topics include both simple and advanced data preparation and management techniques and strategies, basic statistical analysis procedures, and techniques for presenting meaningful results. There will be a focus on one widely used statistical software package in social science and education along with a brief introduction of other popular statistical packages. This course is designed to prepare students for graduate research projects, theses, and dissertations.
EDP 689.  Advanced Data Analysis.  (3)
An in-depth study of data analysis to master the strategies, techniques and skills of advanced statistical methods in order to analyze data appropriately. Topics include data management strategies, complex and advanced statistical analyses procedures, and sophisticated techniques for presenting meaningful results. This course will focus on the application of the most widely used statistical software package in social science and education along with a brief introduction of other popular statistical packages. This course is designed to prepare students for graduate research projects, theses, and dissertations as well as authoring professional reports for conference presentations and peer-reviewed journal publication.Prerequisite: EDP 688 or possess equivalent knowledge and skills.
EDP 690.  Seminar in Educational Psychology.  (1-3)
Varying topics in educational psychology.Prerequisite: EDP 601 or permission of instructor.
EDP 695.  Supervised Public School Experience for School Psychology Students.  (2; maximum 4)
Thirty clock hours of on-site observation/participation per credit hour in public schools at a variety of grade levels, including various cultural/ethnic settings and special education classes.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
EDP 700.  Research for Master's Thesis.  (1-12)
Required for MA program.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
EDP 795.  Internship for Educational Specialist Degree in School Psychology.  (7)
Full-time experience with supervision of university faculty and qualified school psychologists in selected school districts.Prerequisite: completion of all regular courses in the educational specialist curriculum and permission of department chair.
EDP 796.  Internship for Educational Specialist Degree in School Psychology.  (7)
Full-time experience with supervision of university faculty and qualified school psychologists in selected school districts.Prerequisite: completion of all regular courses in the educational specialist curriculum and permission of department chair.
EDP 800.  Specialist Degree.  (1-10)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel