Teacher Education (EDT) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Teacher Education (EDT)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Teacher Education (EDT)
Teacher Education (EDT)
EDT 002.  College Reading II.  (3)
EDT 002 is a 3 non-degree credit hour course which is a credit/no credit class. Instruction focuses on learning and applying strategies in reading to improve comprehension. This course teaches reading as a thinking process to improve understanding of written material. Instruction focuses on applying effective reading/thinking strategies to increasingly difficult reading material, addressing effective vocabulary and reading study skills including synthesis, evaluation, and argumentation.
EDT 110.  Learning Strategies for College Success.  (2)
Designed to teach study skills (reading, note-taking from texts and lectures, organizing and composing orally and in writing) necessary for student to function effectively at Miami University.
EDT 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDT 181.  Physical Science and Society.  (4) (MPF)
This course (lecture and lab) is designed as a model of interactive, inquiry-oriented teaching and learning for students to experience as learners and then apply in their future classrooms. Opportunities will be provided for students to expand their thinking about the process of science and the work of scientists who generate our current understandings of the physical world across the disciplines of physics and chemistry. Explicit attention will be paid to making connections between physical science content and key social justice concepts. IVB, LAB.3 Lec. 1 Lab.
EDT 182.  Earth Science and Society.  (4) (MPF)
This course (lecture and lab) is designed as a model of interactive, inquiry-oriented teaching and learning for students to experience as learners and then apply in their future classrooms. Opportunities will be provided for students to expand their thinking about the process of science and the work of scientists who generate our current understandings of the physical world across the disciplines of geology and astronomy. Explicit attention will be paid to making connections between physical science content and key social justice concepts. IVB, LAB.3 Lec. 1 Lab.
EDT 188.  Creativity and Innovation in STEM Education.  (3) (MPT)
The goal of this course is an introduction to STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Edcuation and its basic principles of creativity and innovation. This course is the first course in the "Exploring STEM Education in Society" thematic sequence. This course will provide many opportunities for thinking critically, problem solving, and in-depth writing.
EDT 190.  Introduction to Education.  (3)
This introductory course explores the purposes, organizations, and outcomes of schooling from the perspectives of the field of social foundations of education. Students undertake critical inquiry into teaching as a profession. Students will explore historical, philosophical, and contemporary purposes of schooling in order to open up new possibilities for them as teachers in a complex, multicultural, and democratic society.
EDT 202.  Global Childhood Education: Diversity, Education & Society.  (3) (MPF)
This course focuses on increasing awareness, sensitivity, and understanding of the diverse cultural, ethnic, linguistic, religious, and family backgrounds of children in education from broader perspectives. It provides students with an opportunity to explore the multicultural American society as well as the global communities. It starts by learning about ourselves that is a basic foundation to understand and respect others. It also offers a chance to see, feel, and think in a different way than we have ever had before. Such mental, emotional, and intellectual "bothering and challenging" is consistently planned and encouraged in this course in order to reexamine our taken-for-granted assumptions and expectations. This course discusses the critical issues by connecting them to application into educational practice and settings. Therefore, it attempts to incorporate the various meanings and concepts of social justice, equality, multiculturalism, diversity and globalization and internationalism into education. IIIB.
EDT 205.  Race, Cultural Diversity, and Equity in Education.  (3) (MPF)
This course will explore the complex relationship between race, cultural diversity, and inequity in education. It will interrogate the idea and construction of “race,” and will examine how racial inequities are produced, maintained, and resisted in educational institutions. It will attend to diversity within groups by considering the dynamics of race as it intersects with gender, class, sexuality, dis/ability, language, and religion. The course will also analyze the historical and ongoing exclusion and marginalization of minoritized groups, and the hegemonic dominance and normalization of whiteness in education policies, curriculum and pedagogy, assessment and achievement, teacher and student identities, school and classroom spaces, and family and community engagements. It will employ various conceptual frameworks to look inside educational structures and cultures that sustain inequities and that challenge and remedy them. Finally, the course will provide students with opportunities to investigate these issues as they relate to their own experiences and communities. IC, IIIB.
EDT 221.  Teaching English Language Learners in PK-12: Culture & Second Language Acquisition.  (3) (MPF)
The first of three sequenced courses in the Teaching English Language Learners (TELLs) certificate, EDT221 TELLs in PK-12: Culture & SLA provides the theoretical foundations necessary for PK-12 teachers to work successfully with English Language Learners (ELLs) in the mainstream classroom. A field experience component, coupled with comprehensive case study assignments, enables teachers to obtain real-word understanding of the cultural and language development issues facing ELLs, their families and their teachers in schools. IIIB.
EDT 225.  Family School and Community Connections.  (3)
This course focuses on the theory and practice of joining families, communities, and schools to support student learning, development and success in education. Strategies to improve communication and collaboration are emphasized with a focus on family types, cultures, economic conditions, school systems, community services, political forces, advocacy groups, and other factors that impact children and their families. IC.Cross-listed with FSW.
EDT 242P.  Phonics and Literacy Instruction for Teachers.  (3)
This course presents historical and research perspectives, word analysis concepts/ terminology, and critical literacy. Teacher candidates will examine diagnostic and instructional procedures as well as digital literacy instruction.
EDT 246.  Foundations of Language and Literacy.  (3)
Explores the foundations of language and literacy development as content background for effective language and literacy instruction, birth to age 21. Topics include theories of language and literacy development, history of reading and writing instruction, literacy and technology, cultural and linguistic aspects of literacy, and various perspectives and models of literacy learning.  Note: Early Childhood education majors take 246E as part of block 1 and Middle Childhood education majors take 246M in the early field block. Integrated English/Language Arts majors take EDT 246A prior to EDT 346A.Prerequisite: admission to the program (for early and middle childhood majors).
EDT 246A.  Foundations of Language and Literacy.  (3)
EDT 246E.  Foundations of Language and Literacy.  (3)
EDT 246M.  Foundations of Language and Literacy.  (3)
EDT 246P.  Foundations of Reading, Language, and Literacy.  (3)
This course offers an introduction to the foundations of language and literacy development as content background for effective language and literacy instruction, PK- 5. Topics include theories of history of reading and writing instruction, literacy and technology, cultural and linguistic aspects of literacy, and various perspectives and models of literacy learning. Teacher candidates will explore various schools of thought regarding literacy, teaching, and learning, including discussions of multicultural education, multi-literacies, and linguistic diversity through a critical literacy framework toward multimodal understandings of literacy to foster culturally responsive practices for an increasingly diverse and globally just society. Field experience in the preschool classroom is integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisites: Admission to Primary PK-5 program and complete EDT 190 and EDP 201 with grade of B or higher.Co-requisites: KNH 245, EDT 272P, EDT 323, EDT 315P.
EDT 251.  Research Skills and Strategies - Library & Internet.  (2)
Build research skills and improve your search strategies using current technology, online tools, and the Internet. Progress through the research process as you apply critical thinking to your information need. Develop skills in finding and evaluating information and citing sources. Learn to use library services and resources including the online catalog, research databases, and print and digital collections.
EDT 252M.  Early Field Experience: Middle Childhood.  (3)
Professional seminar for students admitted to a cohort in teacher education in the middle childhood licensure. Explores process of becoming a teacher and includes clinical and field experiences. Part of early field block.Prerequisite: admission to and retention in middle childhood cohort.
EDT 265.  Mathematics: History and Technology.  (3)
A mathematics course for middle childhood education majors, using various technologies to investigate such topics as mathematical modeling, proportional reasoning, and historical development of math concepts.Prerequisites: Only available for Middle Childhood Education majors or by permission of instructor.
EDT 272E.  Introductory Child Development: PreBirth through Age 8.  (3)
Knowledge of early childhood development to facilitate optimal growth and learning in young children. Emphasis is on all domains and universal characteristics and needs of children and recognition of the unique and highly individualized characteristics and needs of each child within complex social, linguistic and cultural contexts. From current theory and research, advocacy of developmentally appropriate practices and strengthened family interactions. Focuses on NAEYC, standards, and diversity. Part of ECE Block 1.Prerequisite: admission to ECE Program.Co-requisites: EDT 315E and 246E.
EDT 272P.  Introduction of Childhood Development and Education.  (3)
This course focuses on understanding characteristics and needs of young children and on recognizing the multiple influences on their development and learning. Students will discuss the significance of the context in which political, economic, societal, and cultural factors interrelate with early childhood education and young children’s lives. Topics also include teachers' varied roles and responsibilities for healthy, respectful, and safe learning environments Moreover, this course examines brain development, Developmentally Appropriate Practices (DAP) with Culturally Relevant Teaching approaches (CRT), and the importance of play. This course is mainly focused on children in American school settings. Field experience in the preschool classroom is integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisites: Admission to Primary PK-5 program and complete EDT 190 and EDP 201 with grade of B or higher.Co-requisites: EDT 246P, EDT 323, KNH 245, EDT 315P.
EDT 273.  Prekindergarten Integrated Curriculum I.  (3)
Course for students who wish to become child care professionals, working with young children ages 0-5, not yet in kindergarten, in a variety of settings, including public, corporate and private child care centers and preschools. Topics include integration of learning experiences through preparation of safe and healthy environments, observation and assessment tools, behavior management, and adult interactions. Special needs of children are also considered. A 12-hour practicum in a diverse setting is required.
EDT 274.  Prekindergarten Integrated Curriculum II.  (3)
Course for students who wish to become child care professionals, working with young children ages 0-5, not yet in kindergarten, in a variety of settings, including public, corporate and private child care centers and preschools. Topics include development of appropriate curriculum through an integrated thematic approach and lesson planning in the arts, literacy, and content areas, including health, physical education, math, social studies and science. Parent/community involvement and special needs of children are also considered. 12 hours of field work in diverse settings is required.
EDT 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDT 284.  Writing for Educators.  (3)
This writing course is designed for prospective educators and those who want to strengthen their written voices. Students will develop and extend attitudes, habits, and skills that enable them to write with efficiency, clarity, and substance. In addition to writing in a number of genres, students will study the craft of successful writers to learn strategies that expand their own writing repertoire. A central feature of this course is peer response and one-to-one conferences with the instructor to help students learn to revise evolving writing into writing worth reading. ADVW.Prerequisite: ENG 111 or equivalent.
EDT 288.  Ways of Thinking in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Education.  (3)
Over the course of human history, many theories have been developed to help us better understand our physical, biological, psychological, and social worlds. In the process of developing these theories, STEM professionals have used particular ways of observing natural phenomena - thinking, questioning, experimenting, and validating their observations, methods, and theories. This course is designed to help you understand the nature of scientific inquiry and scientific knowledge, mathematical reasoning, engineering and technological design, and the interactions among science, technology, engineering, mathematics and society. The overall goal of the course is to increase your appreciation for the ways of knowing in STEM and contributions of STEM to society in the past, present, and future.
EDT 303.  Community Based Practices: Learning Enhancement for Preschool Children from Low Income Families.  (1-3; maximum 3)
This course is designed for Miami students to learn how to enhance the learning of low income preschool children through technology based content instructions with various learning activities and experiences. The focus of the course is on Butler County preschool classrooms which include children with special needs and children from Latino and various different cultural backgrounds. Miami students will interact with young children in the preschool classroom, teach digital media (iPad) instructions with several contents such as math, social studies, or/and science with literacy components, support young children's parents, and collaborate with in-service teachers under the course instructor's close supervision.
EDT 310.  Applications of Peer Education.  (1)
Introduction to theories and methods of effective tutoring and peer education at college level.Prerequisite: recommendation of faculty member and department chair in tutor's content area or permission of instructor.
EDT 311.  Educational Strategies for Non-Majors.  (3)
Curriculum, materials, and methods of teaching in K-12 schools; lesson planning, questioning strategies, cooperative learning, concept development, technology, evaluation, teaming, understanding learning styles and needs of learners and the teaching environment; teaching professionalism.
EDT 315E.  Teaching with Children's Literature Across the ECE Curriculum.  (3)
Focuses on selecting and using quality literature with young children, with emphasis on various genres and content areas, and provides methods of fostering literacy growth through literature for all early childhood learners, ages 3-8.Prerequisite: admission to ECE program.Co-requisite: EDT 272E and 246E in ECE Block 1.
EDT 315P.  Children's Literature for PK-5 Classrooms.  (3)
In this course, candidates will select, read, and critique literature for young children from a perspective that recognizes the numerous aspects of diversity in today's populations, communities, and classrooms. With attention to the shift in publishing to the inclusion of diverse authors and illustrators, candidates will focus on current books from various genres and formats, recognizing emerging topics. Candidates will be empowered to engage in critical thinking and action in their roles and responsibilities for shaping perspectives of social justice, diversity, and inclusion through literature. Field experience in PK-5 classrooms is integral to meeting course objectives. Co-requisites: EDT 246P, EDT 272P, EDT 323, and KNH 245Prerequisites: Admission to Primary PK-5 program and complete EDT 190 and EDP 201 with grade of B or higher.
EDT 317E.  Teaching Science: Early Childhood.  (3)
Basic principles, methods, curriculum trends, and materials for teaching science to children, ages 3-8. Laboratory and field experiences with children are integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisite: retention in ECE cohort and successful completion of Block I in early childhood education.
EDT 317P.  Science PK-5: Child and Curriculum Integration.  (3)
This course will challenge students to think critically, engage with other learners, and reflect and act upon issues related to science education. Course texts and assignments are intended to deepen personal identity as a scientific thinker (an individual who is able to ask critical questions and build explanations of physical and social phenomena) in order to enhance ability to teach and collaborate effectively with children in Pre-K to 5 science classrooms. Field experience in PK-5 classrooms is integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisites: Completion of Block One and MTH 115, MTH 116, EDT 181 or EDT 182 with a grade of C or higher in each course.Co-requisites: EDT 474P, EDP 495E, EDT 346P, and EDT 318P.
EDT 318E.  Mathematics in Early Childhood.  (3)
Study of theory and principles regarding techniques and materials for facilitating the mathematics learning of children in early childhood; laboratory and field work integral to meeting course objectives, which are aligned with the Ohio model objectives and state and national standards for teaching and learning mathematics.Prerequisite: retention in ECE cohort and successful completion of Block I in early childhood education.
EDT 318P.  Mathematics PK-5: Child and Curriculum Integration.  (3)
This course focuses on methods of teaching mathematics that include play, small-group projects, open-ended questioning, group discussion, problem-solving, cooperative learning, and inquiry experiences toward engaging with young children in advancing their intellectual curiosity and capabilities. Teacher candidates will be provided the opportunity to work with children of diverse ages, with diverse abilities, and culturally and/or linguistically diverse family systems. Instruction will focus on developing strategies to encourage children’s physical, social, emotional, aesthetic, and cognitive development with respect to learning mathematics. This course will challenge students to think critically, engage with other learners, and reflect and act upon issues related to mathematics education. Field experience in PK-5 classrooms is integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisites: Completion of Block One, MTH 115, MTH 116, EDT 181 or EDT 182 with a grade of C or higher in each course.Co-requisites: EDT 474P, EDP 495E, EDT 346P, EDT 317P.
EDT 323.  Teaching English Language Learners in PK-12: Instructional Theories & Practices.  (3) (MPF)
The second of three sequenced courses in the Teaching English Language Learners (TELLs) certificate, EDT 323 TELLs in PK-12: Instructional Theory & Practices provides the instructional foundations necessary for PK-12 teachers to work successfully with English Language Learners (ELLs) in the mainstream classroom. A field experience component, coupled with comprehensive case study assignments, enables teachers to obtain real-word understanding of the instructional and assessment issues facing ELLs and their teachers in schools. IIIB.
EDT 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
EDT 346A.  Reading Instruction for Adolescents.  (3)
Basic course in instructional principles and methods for reading and studying techniques in specific subject area courses taken by adolescents. Emphasis on strategies to improve reading comprehension and vocabulary. Laboratory and field experiences are an integral part of the course.Prerequisite: EDT 246A and retention in adolescent integrated English/language arts cohort.Co-requisite: EDT 427/EDT 527.
EDT 346E.  Teaching Language and Literacy Across the ECE Curriculum.  (3)
Teaching and integrating language, reading, and writing including planning, implementing, and reflecting on effective methods, materials and formal and informal assessment measures. Topics of study include cultural and linguistic diversity; literacy and technology; and organization of a learning environment to support literacy development in children ages 3 to 8 or preschool to third grade. Emphasis on strategies to improve reading comprehension, vocabulary, and written composition. Laboratory and field experiences are an integral part of the course.Prerequisite: retention in ECE Program and successful completion of Block I in early childhood education.
EDT 346M.  Reading Instruction for Middle Grades.  (3)
Students expand and extend knowledge base from EDT 246.M; explore, study, apply, and assimilate new learning about effective reading and literacy strategies appropriate to development and needs of early adolescent learners (grades 4-9). Focuses on knowledge and skills necessary to make and apply appropriate programmatic and instructional decisions including knowledge of the early adolescent learner, reading and writing processes, instructional strategies, and integrating materials and learning environments. Laboratory and field experiences are an integral part of the course.Prerequisite: retention in middle childhood cohort (part of fall semester middle childhood content methods block).
EDT 346P.  Language, Literacy, and Culture in PK-5 Education.  (3)
This course explores theories and practices in the field of language and literacy that encourage the development of supportive classrooms for young children across a range of racial, ethnic, linguistic, and cultural communities. Specific attention is given to issues of equity with regard to race, ethnicity, language, religion, sexual orientation, gender identification, ableism, etc. to enable preservice teachers to develop critical understandings and dispositions to better support all learners in the teaching of language and literacy across the PK-5 curriculum. Field experience in PK-5 classrooms is integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisites: Completion of Block Two, MTH 115, MTH 116, EDT 181 or EDT 182 with a grade of C or higher in each course.Co-requisites: EDT 473P, EDL 318E, EDP 432/EDP 532, EDP 495E.
EDT 362.  U.S. Political/Economic Experience for Teachers.  (4)
This course includes discussions of United States' political and economic institutions and processes toward preparation of teacher candidates. Instruction emphasizes historical and contemporary interrelationships of economic and political institutions in the United States society. Toward growth in constructs of financial literacy, course participants will discern financial choices, discuss financial issues without (or despite) discomfort, and respond to life events that affect everyday financial decisions, including events in the general economy.
EDT 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDT 405/EDT 505.  Advanced Science for the Elementary School Teacher.  (3)
Content course in physical science covering advanced study of selected areas of geology, physics, chemistry, and astronomy.
EDT 415/EDT 515.  Inquiry Into Life Science.  (3)
Provides students with the opportunity to explore the world of life science through inquiry using a thematic approach. Major themes include the nature of science, ecology, human biology, evolution, and taxonomy.Prerequisites: successful completion of any entry-level life science course taught in biology or microbiology.
EDT 417E.  Teaching Social Studies in the Early Childhood.  (3)
Curriculum, materials, and methods of teaching social studies for ages 3-8. Focuses on developmentally appropriate curriculum and instructional practice, including play, small-group projects, open-ended questioning, group discussions, problem solving, cooperative learning, and inquiry experiences, as they apply to social studies.Prerequisite: successful completion of Block I in early childhood education.
EDT 417P.  Social Studies PK-5: Child and Curriculum Integration.  (3)
This course engages teacher candidates in analysis of the values embodied in the USA democratic form of government with its commitment to justice, equality, and freedom of thought and speech, as reflected in classroom curricula, materials, and methods of teaching social studies in PK-5. The course will include considerations of the ethical dimensions of social studies topics, of controversial issues, and of heritage as reflected through diverse cultures and as shown through the arts, play, customs, traditions, family celebrations and language. Field experience in PK-5 classrooms is integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisites: Completion of Block Two with a grade of C or higher in each course.Co-requisites: EDT 473P, EDP 432/EDP 532, EDL 318E.
EDT 418.  TESOL PK-12 Teaching Practicum.  (3)
The culminating class of four sequenced courses in the undergraduate TESOL endorsement provides the practical setting and opportunity for teacher candidates to apply the skills, techniques and strategies they have acquired to successfully teach English Language Learners (ELLs) in the mainstream, content classroom. The course is taken concurrently with Student Teaching (EDT 419) and comprises a minimum of 50 clock hours of work with ELLs. During scheduled seminars teacher candidates discuss, analyze and reflect on the application of theories of teaching and learning from a socially just, culturally and linguistically-responsive perspective.Prerequisites: EDT 221, EDT 454, EDT 425, ENG/ATH/GER 219 or SPN 312 or FRE 361, and OAE taken.
EDT 419A/EDT 519A.  Teaching Internship- Adolescent.  (1-16)
Planned and supervised learning experiences in which students demonstrate knowledge, skills, abilities, and values appropriate to teaching in educational settings. Typically 15 weeks in the schools is required. Frequent conferences with university supervisors and cooperating teachers.Prerequisites: completion of all instructional procedures courses required in the licensure program; required GPA for licensure programs; at least 96 semester hours; and take the OAE content test.
EDT 419E.  Teaching Internship- Early Childhood.  (15)
Planned and supervised learning experiences in which students demonstrate knowledge, skills, abilities, and values appropriate to teaching in educational settings. Typically 15 weeks in the schools is required. Frequent conferences with university supervisors and cooperating teachers.Prerequisites: completion of all instructional procedures courses required in the licensure program, required GPA for licensure programs, at least 96 semester hours, and take the OAE content test.
EDT 419M.  Teaching Internship-Middle Childhood.  (15)
Planned and supervised learning experiences in which students demonstrate knowledge, skills, abilities, and values appropriate to teaching in educational settings. Typically 15 weeks in the schools is required. Frequent conferences with university supervisors and cooperating teachers.Prerequisites: completion of all instructional procedures courses required in the licensure program, required GPA for licensure programs, at least 96 semester hours, and take the OAE content test.
EDT 419P.  Teaching Internship Primary PK-5.  (15)
Planned and supervised learning experiences in which students demonstrate knowledge, skills, abilities, and values appropriate to teaching in educational settings. Typically, 15 weeks in the schools is required. Frequent conferences with university supervisors and cooperating teachers.Prerequisites: Completion of all instructional procedures courses required in the licensure program, required GPA for licensure programs, at least 96 semester hours, and take the OAE content test.
EDT 420.  Field Experience.  (1-4; maximum 8)
Collaborate and work with schools and communities to deepen understandings of contextual factors that impact teacher candidates’ future profession. EL.
EDT 420F.  Teaching Foreign Language (FL): Elementary School Practicum.  (3)
Provides the instructional foundations to successfully teach a Foreign Language in the elementary school classroom. Miami students with proficiency and background in a foreign language (e.g. ASL, Chinese, French, German, Latin, Spanish) read, discuss, and explore theories and best practices in language teaching and learning. Students apply this theoretical knowledge, transfer course skills, and deepen their understanding of course content as they independently author and implement language and culture lessons in the Talawanda After School Foreign Language Program (TASFLP). Students collaborate with their faculty mentor and peers to reflect and conduct self-assessments on their teaching experiences throughout the course in order to improve their planning and implementation of language and cultural content in the program and beyond.Prerequisite: Proficiency and background in a foreign language.
EDT 421A/EDT 521A.  Classroom Cultures, Community, and Climate.  (3)
This course focuses on strategies for building positive learning environments for students and teachers that support student cooperation, engagement, and achievement. Teacher candidates study and apply techniques intended to foster mutual respect and community-building in the classroom with emphasis on the first days of school and classroom technologies.Prerequisites: Admission to and retention in the language arts, mathematics, science, social studies, and foreign language cohorts (part of the adolescent methods block).
EDT 421M.  Classroom Management.  (3)
Systematic study of research and theories of classroom management with application to the student teacher's specific classroom management problems (grades 4-9).Prerequisite: Admission to and retention in middle childhood education cohort (part of the fall semester middle childhood methods block).
EDT 422.  Studies in Educational Issues.  (3) (MPC)
Each student or student team collaborates with instructor and peers to identify and conduct an investigation or complete a creative project that focuses on a specific problem or issue in education. Seminar course with primary emphasis on intensive reading, research, writing, and interaction in student-selected areas of study with opportunities for analysis and reflection. Includes discussions, team work, presentations, and writing projects. Culminating activity is an oral or written presentation or exhibition that demonstrates understanding or resolution of the issue or problem studied.
EDT 423/EDT 523.  Literature and Other Media for Adolescents.  (3)
Discusses evaluation of nonprint media, selection aids, censorship problems, and adolescent needs in half the semester and evaluation and criticism of literature in the other half.Prerequisite: junior or senior standing.
EDT 425.  Teaching English Language Learners in PK-12: Active Learning & Literacy.  (3) (MPF)
The third of three sequenced courses in the Teaching English Language Learners (TELLs) certificate, EDT425 TELLs in PK-12: Active Learning & Literacy provides the instructional foundations necessary for PK-12 teachers to work successfully with English Language Learners (ELLs) in the mainstream classroom. A field experience component, coupled with comprehensive case study assignments, enables teachers to obtain real-word understanding of the linguistic and literacy issues facing ELLs and their teachers in schools. IIIB.Prerequisite: EDT 221 or EDT 323.
EDT 427/EDT 527.  Adolescent Language Arts I.  (3)
Curriculum, materials, and methods for teaching writing, grammar, usage, literature, speech, journalism, with emphasis on writing and journalism, including ethics and law surrounding school publications.Prerequisite: retention in your language arts cohort (part of language arts methods block).
EDT 428/EDT 528.  Adolescent Language Arts II.  (3)
Curriculum, materials, and methods for teaching writing, grammar, usage, literature, speech, journalism, and media with emphasis on literature and media.Prerequisite: retention in your language arts cohort and successful completion of all of the courses in the language arts methods block.
EDT 429A/EDT 529A.  Adolescent Mathematics I.  (3)
Use of curricula, materials, and teaching/assessment strategies for teaching mathematics in the middle childhood/junior high school years (grades 7-9).Prerequisite: retention in the math cohort (part of mathematics methods block).
EDT 429M.  Middle Childhood Mathematics.  (3)
Use of curricula, materials, and teaching/assessment strategies for teaching mathematics in the middle childhood/junior high school years (grades 4-9).Prerequisites: retention in your math cohort.
EDT 430/EDT 530.  Adolescent Mathematics II.  (3)
Use of curricula, materials, and teaching/assessment strategies for teaching mathematics to adolescents in the senior high school years (grades 9-12).Prerequisite: EDT 429A/EDT 529A and retention in your math cohort.
EDT 431/EDT 531.  Adolescent Science Methods I.  (3)
Fundamental principles, techniques, and materials of science teaching in grades 7-12.Prerequisite: admission to and retention in science cohort.
EDT 432/EDT 532.  Adolescent Science Methods II.  (3)
Fundamental principles, techniques, and materials of science teaching in grades 7-12.Prerequisite: EDT 431/EDT 531 and retention in science cohort.
EDT 433/EDT 533.  Adolescent Social Studies Methods I.  (3)
Introduction to social studies as a professional field, curriculum, materials, and methods of teaching grades 7-12; lesson planning, simulations, learning styles, current trends in social studies education.Prerequisite: admission to and retention in social studies cohort.
EDT 434/EDT 534.  Adolescent Social Studies Methods II.  (3)
Materials, curriculum, methods, and standards for teaching social studies in grades 7-12; questioning strategies, cooperative learning, technology, unit development, evaluation, current trends in the social studies.Prerequisite: retention in your social studies education cohort, including EDT 433/EDT 533 (part of social studies methods block).
EDT 436.  Middle Childhood Language Arts.  (3)
Methods, strategies, techniques, and attitudes for integrating the teaching of writing, grammar, usage, literature, and speech in grades 4-8.Prerequisite: retention in the appropriate middle childhood cohort.
EDT 439.  Middle Childhood Social Studies.  (3)
Curricula, materials, and methods of teaching social studies in grades 4-9; lesson planning, simulations, learning style, current trends in teaching social studies.Prerequisite: retention in your middle childhood social studies cohort.
EDT 441.  Middle Childhood Science.  (3)
Basic principles, methods, curriculum trends, and materials for teaching science to children, grades 4-9. Laboratory and field experiences with children are integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisite: retention in your middle childhood science cohort.
EDT 442E.  Phonics, Word Study, and Spelling Instruction in ECE.  (3)
Presents historical and research perspectives, word analysis concepts/ terminology, and instructional methods of phonics and word recognition for early childhood, ages 3-8. Examines diagnostic and instructional procedures related to special needs of very low to high achieving readers.Prerequisite: admission to and retention in early childhood cohort and successful completion of early field block.
EDT 442M.  Phonics and Reading Improvement for Middle Childhood.  (3)
Presents historical and research perspectives, word analysis concepts/ terminology, and instructional methods of phonics and word recognition for middle childhood, grades 4-9. Examines diagnostic and instructional procedures related to special needs of very low to high achieving readers.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: EDT 346M (retention in cohort and successful completion of early field block in middle childhood education).
EDT 444/EDT 544.  Language Teaching and Learning I.  (3)
The first of two courses preparing pre-K-12 foreign language teacher candidates to become critical and reflective professionals; to use theoretical underpinnings; to apply national standards, best practices, cutting edge curricula, current trends; and to infuse technology in teaching languages.Prerequisite: retention in foreign language cohort.
EDT 445/EDT 545.  Language Teaching and Learning II.  (3)
The second of two courses preparing pre-K-12 foreign language teacher candidates to become critical and reflective professionals, to use theoretical underpinnings, to apply national standards, best-practices, cutting-edge curricula, current trends and to infuse technology in teaching languages.Prerequisite: EDT 444/EDT 544 and Advanced Low score on the ACTFL Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI).Co-requisite: EDT 446L/EDT 546L.
EDT 446A/EDT 546A.  Integrating Literacy Across the Content Areas.  (3)
Basic course in instructional principles and methods for integrating literacy across the content areas in grades 7-12. Part of methods block for mathematics, social studies, and science education majors.
EDT 446L/EDT 546L.  Reading in the Foreign Language.  (3)
Basic course in instructional principles and methods for teaching reading and study techniques in foreign language in secondary schools. Emphasis on developmental strategies to improve reading comprehension and vocabulary.Prerequisite: admission to and retention in the foreign language cohort (part of methods block for foreign language education majors).
EDT 448M.  Reading Practicum for Middle Childhood.  (3)
Supervised experience in teaching a middle grade student having difficulty in reading. Emphasizes principles and methods for special needs instruction.Prerequisite: EDT 346M.
EDT 450/EDT 550.  Special Problems.  (1-3; maximum 6)
Individual study or research of problems of learning, instruction, or curriculum with guidance of department faculty member.Prerequisite: senior or graduate standing and written approval of instructor and department chair.
EDT 452/EDT 552.  Teaching Social Studies in the Intermediate Grades.  (3)
Topics include the content required to teach social studies in the intermediate grades as well as strategies, activities, and materials for developing pedagogical competencies. A field component is required.Prerequisite: successful completion of an early childhood social studies methods course such as EDT 417E (one of the courses in the 4-5 endorsement for ECE students or for licensed ECE teachers).
EDT 453/EDT 553.  Practicum & Praxis Grades 4-5.  (1)
Topics include content required to teach language arts, mathematics, science, or social studies in the intermediate grades as well as strategies, activities, and materials for developing pedagogical competencies as reflected on the OAE Early Childhood Education Content Assessment (www.oh.nesinc.com) - test code 012. A field component of implementation of content and pedagogical knowledge is required,either in this course or in one or more of the following: EDT 405/EDT 505/505, EDT 452/EDT 552/552, or EDT 465/EDT 565/565. One of the courses in the 4-5 endorsement for ECE students or for licensed ECE teachers.
EDT 455.  Capstone Seminar: Comparative Education in Europe or China.  (4)
This class is conducted in both Oxford and Europe or China. Students spend time in classrooms abroad observing educational practices in another culture(s) for the purpose of identifying similarities and differences between the U.S. and other Europe or China. The class is approved to meet the capstone requirement. Format, themes, and topics may differ by section.
EDT 457/EDT 557.  Culturally Responsive Teaching.  (3)
The goal of this course is to assist preservice and in-service teachers to develop proficiency using culturally relevant pedagogy for culturally and linguistically diverse students. The course includes a study of the theo-retical and practical foundations of effective teaching in diverse classroom environments. Ethnicity, gender, social class, religion and other issues are considered from multiple perspectives.
EDT 461/EDT 561.  Grant Writing Skills and Methods.  (3)
This graduate and permission only senior level course offering will introduce approved seniors and graduate students to systemic methods for reviewing "Requests for Funding Proposals" (RFP), creating pre-writing documents to support creating a grant application, and applying collaborative methods for writing quality grant applications to foundation, federal, state and community funding sources. Web-based sources for grant funding will be introduced. The course will introduce a 4 stage/32step process for analyzing complicated Requests for Funding Proposals (RFPs), supporting the grant application writing process and applying for funding. The course will include many recommendations for technology-supported grant application development and the final grant editing process. Novice and more experienced grant writers may work in writing teams to create and submit real grant applications on behalf of existing organizations, agencies, school districts or individual initiatives. This courseis online.
EDT 465/EDT 565.  Learning and Teaching Mathematics in the Intermediate Grades.  (3)
Topics include the content required to teach mathematics in the intermediate grades as well as strategies, activities, and materials for developing pedagogical competencies. A field component is required.Prerequisite: successful completion of an early childhood mathematcis methods course such as EDT 318E (one of the courses in 4-5 endorsement for ECE students or for licensed ECE teachers).
EDT 466/EDT 566.  Mathematics Misconception Diagnosis & Remediation.  (3)
Participants engage in deep analysis of classroom artifacts (e.g., video of classroom instruction, student work samples) to inform revision of teaching materials / curriculum to better support learning needs and interests of K-12 mathematics learners from diverse learning backgrounds and cultures.Prerequisite: Junior or graduate standing or permission of course instructor.
EDT 473E.  Early Childhood Synthesis: Negotiating the Complexities of Teaching.  (3)
Synthesis of elements presented earlier in ECE program. Site-based experience is an integral part of the course, as students engage with the simultaneous elements of the child, culture, community, content/curriculum, mandates, pedagogies, personal identity, and the teaching life. Emphasis is on building relationships, developing ethical commitment, and on learning skills toward integrated-content project planning that is responsive to the needs, interests, and culture of the children, school, and community. Part of early childhood Block 3.
EDT 473P.  Negotiating the Complexities of Teaching: PK-5 Synthesis.  (3)
This course engages teacher candidates with synthesizing elements of teaching: the child, culture, community, content/curriculum, mandates, pedagogies, and personal identity. Emphasis is on building relationships, articulating intellectual identity, developing ethical commitment, and on development of skills toward integrated-content project planning that is responsive to the needs, interests, and culture of the children, school, and community. Field experience in PK-5 classrooms is integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisites: Completion of Block Two with a grade of C or higher in each course.Co-requisites: EDL 318E, EDP 432/EDP 532, EDT 417P.
EDT 474E.  Classroom Management & Student Guidance in Early Childhood.  (3)
This is a course for early childhood educators that integrates the ways in which children learn and develop with the essential knowledge, skills, and dispositions teachers need in order to organize and manage the classroom context, guide student behavior, and promote effective relationships with students, families, colleagues, and other stakeholders. Topics examined in the course include: developmentally appropriate media, materials, and practices; classroom organization and management; student guidance; self-awareness; leadership of the classroom as social context; and contemporary issues in public education. Prerequisite: completion of Block I.
EDT 474P.  Classroom Cultures, Community, and Climate.  (3)
This course integrates the ways in which children learn and develop with the essential knowledge, skills, and lenses teachers need in order to build and nurture a positive and inclusive community of learners. Topics include increasing understanding and embracing of cultural differences, and focusing on why and how to promote effective and reciprocal relationships with students, families, colleagues, and the community in which the school is placed. Additional topics addressed include Trauma-Sensitive Schools, Restorative Justice, and Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS). Field experience in PK-5 classrooms is integral to meeting course objectives.Prerequisites: Completion of Block Two, MTH 115, MTH 116, EDT 181 or EDT 182 with a grade of C or higher in each course.Co-requisites: EDP 495E, EDT 346P, EDT 318P, EDT 317P.
EDT 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDT 483/EDT 583.  Educators as Activists: Preparing Educators and Allies for Forces Impacting Classrooms and Schools.  (3)
Teacher activism, broadly defined, will be explored using (a) historical perspectives from curriculum, educational policy, and civil rights and (b) current educational issues, such as educational corporatization, challenges to curricula, and educational equity. Students will study themes and perspectives on activism strategies in a variety of contexts, and will self-reflect on their own identities and educational settings to develop strategies for activism. Structural inequities in education will be emphasized and will serve as a conceptual framework for study.
EDT 485.  Outdoor Leadership in New Zealand.  (3,6; maximum 6)
This course will provide students with an opportunity to challenge and expand their traditional views of leadership and education in a diverse environment. The course will focus on four main principles: leadership, outdoor skill development, outdoor education, and cultural engagement. The course is comprised of three distinct experiences: 1) examining and discussing different theories/models in the classroom prior to the trip, 2) investigating the cultural diversity of New Zealand by participating in various cultural experiences in a Maori community and 3) putting theory and core skills (human, outdoor, & educational) into practice during multi-day backpacking and sea kayaking experiences throughout New Zealand.
EDT 488.  Grand Challenges in STEM Education.  (3)
This course is designed to engage students in a broad range of topics related to STEM. This course is designed as a culminating experience in a thematic sequence, bringing together big ideas around the grand challenges in STEM.Prerequisite: EDT 188.
EDT 495.  Writing Information Books for Children.  (3) (MPC)
Drawing on content knowledge gained from coursework in major courses of study, students will each write an information book for a diverse community of children. As an authentic learning experience, the course will include the study of children's literature and writing for children, the creation of a writing community among participants, and development of ways to sahre the books globally.
EDT 600.  Independent Reading.  (1-3; maximum 6)
Planned reading in any field curriculum or instruction with guidance of a department faculty member.Prerequisite: regular standing in graduate school, minimum of 10 hours in education, and approval of the plan of study by department chair.
EDT 603.  Language, Literacy and Culture.  (3)
Critical analysis of research and theory of language and literacy development and instruction with particular emphasis on the cognitive, linguistic, and socio-cultural factors that influence language and literacy learning and teaching.Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor.
EDT 606.  Curriculum Innovation and Transformation through Understanding and Design.  (3)
This course is designed for educators interested in learning more about the curriculum in use in classrooms, schools, and community organizations, and the possibilities for shaping and transforming curriculum and teaching practices. The course will introduce students to important issues in curriculum theory and practice.Cross-listed with EDL.
EDT 610.  Applied Studies in Classroom Teaching.  (1-3; maximum 12)
Practicum to meet specific classroom needs of the instructional staff of a school, school system, or group of subject area teachers. Structured after needs-assessment made.Prerequisite: minimum of 10 semester hours of professional education courses.
EDT 612.  TESOL Educational Policies & Second Language Acquisition.  (3)
The first of four courses in the TESOL graduate endorsement program, EDT 612 TESOL Policies & SLA introduces licensed, generalist P-12 teachers to the educational public policies governing the education of English Language Learners and the ways school districts do and can meet these obligations. The course also provides P-12 teachers with the second language acquisition theories and models that will help them work successfully with their ELLs. Practical, comprehensive case study assignments enable teachers to take an in-depth look at the role teachers can take in informing and making language policy, as well as their essential role in the development of their ELLs' language.
EDT 614.  TESOL Instructional Methodologies.  (3)
The third of four courses in the TESOL graduate endorsement program, EDT 614 TESOL Instructional Methodologies aims at helping licensed, generalist P-12 teachers develop techniques, strategies and methodologies of teaching English Language Learners (ELLs) using sheltered instruction. The course also provides P-12 teachers with language proficiency and content assessment theories and practices that will help them better evaluate the progress of ELLs. Practical, comprehensive case study assignments enable teachers to reformulate their assessment and cultural understandings to create a culturally responsive and equitable environment for ELLs in their classrooms.
EDT 616.  Current Issues in TESOL.  (3)
The fourth of four courses in the TESOL graduate endorsement program, EDT 616 Current Issues in TESOL allows licensed, generalist P-12 teachers to delve more in depth into some topics or issues regarding English Language Learners (ELLs) that are critical to the profession. They will present their research to our professional learning community, as well as analyze their effectiveness in applying it to their own ELLs.Prerequisite: EDT 612.
EDT 618.  TESOL Cultural Contexts & Assessment.  (3)
The second of four courses in the TESOL graduate endorsement program, EDT 618 TESOL Cultural Contexts & Assessment aims at helping licensed, generalist P-12 teachers develop awareness of the elusive and learned nature of culture, and its pervasive effects on schooling for ELLs. The course also provides P-12 teachers with language proficiency and content assessment theories and practices that will help them better evaluate the progress of their ELLs. Practical, comprehensive case study assignments enable teachers to reformulate their assessment and cultural understandings to create a culturally responsive and equitable environment for the ELLs in their classrooms.
EDT 622.  Improvement of Teaching in the Public School.  (3)
Advanced course in principles and practices for improving instruction in modern secondary schools with emphasis on research findings and innovation. Summer only.Prerequisite: graduate standing, 15 hours in education, permission of instructor.
EDT 625.  Teaching Writing.  (3)
Advanced course in the teaching of writing, emphasizing procedures and strategies for teaching writing, development of students' own writing skills in a number of genres, readings in recent theory and practice of teaching writing, and case study research methods. Students must gain access to a K-12 classroom to complete their case study. Appropriate for both elementary and secondary school teachers across the curriculum.
EDT 626.  Teaching with Literature for Children.  (3)
Intensive study of children's literature and its use in literacy instruction. Topics include: critical analysis of literature, diversity of forms and genres, use of literature that represents various cultural identities and contexts, and support of literary discourse among students.Prerequisite: Graduate standing or permission of instructor.
EDT 632.  Literacy Assessment and Instruction.  (3)
In-depth examination of classroom aspects of literacy assessment and instruction in reading and writing. Includes experience in assessing aspects of literacy development and analyzing assessment data to group students and design instruction for students with diverse needs (topics include: reading processes & miscue analysis, reading fluency, comprehension, literary response, and writing).Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor.
EDT 635.  Clinical Literacy Practicum.  (4)
Advanced supervised practicum experience involving assessment and instruction of public school students experiencing reading and writing difficulties. Involves writing reports of assessment and instruction for tutees' parents and teachers.Prerequisites: ALL reading endorsement requirements must be met prior to registering (EDT 603, EDT 642, EDT 632, EDT 646).
EDT 636.  Literacy and Leadership.  (3)
Theoretical and practical exploration of the roles of the reading specialist/literacy coach in supporting teachers and other education professionals in the planning, implementation and evaluation of effective literacy instruction. Designed as a practicum or internship to meet specific literacy coaching needs of instructional staff of a school, school system or group of subject area teachers.Prerequisites: 12 credit hours of program requirements, EDT 603 and EDT 610.
EDT 642.  Phonics and Reading Improvement for the Reading Teacher.  (3)
Examination of the principles and practices of literacy development using phonics as a component of reading and writing instruction. Focus on instructional strategies, materials, and programs aimed at teaching phonics and spelling targeting the specific needs of developing and struggling readers and writers.Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor.
EDT 643.  Language and Discourse.  (3)
In-depth examination of linguistic and cultural aspects of diverse populations as they affect literacy learning and teaching. Includes practical applications of theories of language and discourse. Emphasis on designing classroom discourse environments and home and community connections to promote equity and foster language and literacy development of Pre-K-12 students with diverse backgrounds and needs.Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor.
EDT 646.  Reading and Writing in Content Areas.  (3)
Examination of the research, theory, curricula, and methods for integrating the teaching of reading and writing across the disciplines such as mathematics, science, social studies.Prerequisite: graduate standing or permission of instructor.
EDT 648.  Data-Informed Decision Making in Education.  (3)
Students in this class learn contemporary educational research methods and develop skills to plan and complete a systematic action research inquiry into educational practice. The class introduces students to research design, review of relevant literature, implementation, and evaluation.Cross-listed with EDL.
EDT 660.  Seminar in Mathematics Education.  (1-3; maximum 6)
Current issues and research in mathematics education.Prerequisites: certification or current enrollment in a certification program.
EDT 663.  Advanced Methods for Adolescent Mathematics.  (3)
Innovative activities, materials, and programs for junior high and high school mathematics. Curricular and instructional decision-making based upon study of current state and national recommendations and of current research. Emphasis on the teaching of problem solving (7-12).Prerequisites: Teacher certification/licensure or permission of instructor.
EDT 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EDT 690.  Graduate Capstone Experience in Education.  (3)
Provides students the opportunity to engage in a culminating project that demonstrates critical thinking, understanding contexts, and reflection and action using the course work and experiences from the graduate program. The end product of the individualized experience could include a research paper, journal manuscript, written comprehensive examination, professional portfolio with components indicative of a state/national master teacher portfolio, or other approved project. The project will also serve as part of the master's examination. It is expected that the student will have completed the majority of the courses in his or her program.Prerequisite: completion of at least 12 graduate hours.Co-requisite: submission for Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval within the first two weeks of the semester if conducting research with human subjects.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel