Engineering Management (EGM) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Engineering Management (EGM)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Engineering Management (EGM)
Engineering Management (EGM)
EGM 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EGM 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EGM 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EGM 411/EGM 511.  Leading and Managing Projects.  (3)
Addresses fundamental aspects of leading and managing complex projects including: organizational leadership, strategic planning and project selection, project life cycle planning, estimating project schedule and cost, planning, organizing, directing and monitoring resources, analyzing and managing risk, team building and conflict management, assessing progress and performance, project audit and closure, and related topics.Prerequisites: STA 301, ECE 345, ISA 205, or STA 261; or equivalent.
EGM 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel