English Studies (EGS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
English Studies (EGS)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·English Studies (EGS)
English Studies (EGS)
EGS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EGS 215.  Workplace Writing.  (3)
Practice in varieties of workplace correspondence and communication with emphasis on writing clear, concise, and accurate informal and formal reports, including email, resumes, cover letters, incident reports, accident reports, sales reports, marketing plans, activity reports, progress reports, change controls, evaluation/performance reports, recommendation reports, and white papers. ADVW.
EGS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EGS 301.  Writing and the Professions.  (3)
Immersive study of multimodal writing practices in various professional disciplines. Reading, research, discussion, and writing about the benefits of a liberal arts education in a complex, global work environment. ADVW, EL.
EGS 305.  Integrative Writing in Global Contexts.  (3)
Through this advanced composition course, students develop and exercise means to integrate multiple perspectives and disciplinary discourses through writing for global audiences. Readings focused on issues in diversity and intercultural communication, assignments involving various genres and disciplinary methodologies, and projects that analyze and integrate multiple forms of writing help students draw on their liberal learning to address real-world challenges in regard to diverse others and the interconnected global community. IC, ADVW.Cross-listed with BIS 305.
EGS 319.  Medical Writing.  (3)
Introduces students to a range of strategies used in medical writing for general and specialized audiences. The primary focus will be on audience, argument, style, and conventions, as well as different genres and contexts of medical writing. Students will evaluate the most common types of scientific writing, such as presentations, manuscripts and grant applications, both individually and in collaboration with others. Students will develop their own scientific research documents with attention to visual design and format as well as content. ADVW.
EGS 320.  Readings in Literatures and Cultures.  (3; maximum 6)
Readings and discussions may focus on various periods, movements, genres, authors, and/or national traditions. May be repeated once for credit when content changes.Prerequisite: ENG 298 or permission of instructor.
EGS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
EGS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EGS 390.  Special Topics in English Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
Intensive study of a particular aspect of English studies, which may include special topics in literature, creative writing, professional writing, or linguistics. Topic determined by instructor. May be repeated once for credit when content changes.Prerequisite: ENG 298 or permission of instructor.
EGS 410.  Readings in Multicultural Perspectives.  (3; maximum 6)
Specific study of diverse literary traditions and voices, emphasizing a global context for the study of literary texts. May be repeated once for credit when content changes.Prerequisite: ENG 298 or permission of instructor.
EGS 420.  Topics in Writing.  (3; maximum 6)
ENG 420 develops students’ critical thinking, reading, and writing skills in a variety of writing contexts. Particular focus on issues relevant to global workplace and everyday life. Topic determined by instructor. May be repeated once for credit when content changes.
EGS 460.  Issues in Literary and Cultural Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
Inquiry into topics informed by literary and cultural theory such as identity, authorship and performativity. May be repeated once for credit when content changes.Prerequisite: ENG 298 or permission of instructor.
EGS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
EGS 495.  Capstone in English Studies.  (3)
Intensive reading, research, writing, and discussion in selected topics. While specific requirements vary with topic and instructor, students will analyze texts within their various contexts, conduct and use research ethically, and communicate effectively both orally and in writing. Capstones in English are selected annually from faculty proposals.Prerequisite: ENG 298 or permission of instructor and senior standing.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel