Family Science and Social Work (FSW) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Family Studies and Social Work (FSW)
General Course Information
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Family Studies and Social Work (FSW)
Family Science and Social Work (FSW)
FSW 142.  Exploring Helping Professions.  (3) (MPF)
The course provides an introduction to various helping professions. Students will explore the history of helping relationships, the professionalization of helping, and current influences of technology, managed care, and models of service delivery on professional helping. Students will examine characteristics of a helping professional, two major approaches to helping, and techniques for self- care and managing interpersonal relationships. IIC.
FSW 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
FSW 201.  Introduction to Social Work and Family Life Education.  (3)
The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of the current standing of the professions of social work and family science. Individuals and families will be discussed using multiple social work and family science theories that acknowledge larger social contexts. The course is framed through a social justice and human betterment perspective. Students will explore the core content areas of social work and the CFLE, the professionalization of social workers and family science, and current policies related to social welfare programs. Students will learn about employment in various sectors of society such as mental health settings, schools, hospitals, criminal justice, child welfare, etc. As an introductory course, the aim is to encourage critical thinking and an increased awareness of the historical and current impact of social policies on individuals, families, groups, organizations, communities, and global contexts.
FSW 206.  Social Welfare Policies & Programs.  (4) (MPF)
The purpose of this course is to critically analyze historical and current interactions of social welfare policies, programs, and services. The course addresses the nature and impact of policy decisions on the social welfare of individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities. Special attention will be given to disenfranchised, oppressed, and impoverished populations. Students acquire beginning skills in policy practice and advocacy. IC, IIC.
FSW 207.  Serving and Supporting Children, Youth, and Families I.  (4) (MPT)
Introductory analysis of relationships among the conditions, characteristics, and capacities of children, youth, and families (especially those labeled "at risk") and the institutional services and supports intended to improve their well-being. Emphasis placed upon question-finding in different contexts, especially the ways in which the knowledge we claim and the solutions we offer are dependent upon our analytical frames and language. Offered on regional campuses only.Cross-listed with KNH 207.
FSW 208.  Serving and Supporting Children, Youth, and Families II.  (5) (MPT)
Focuses upon children, youth, and families experiencing needs, problems, and crises. Today's institutional services and supports are analyzed and evaluated both in class and in educational, health, and social service agencies. Students shadow helping professionals in these agencies during directed field experiences. Offered on regional campuses only.Cross-listed with KNH.
FSW 221.  Sexualities.  (3)
Introduction to the study of human sexual behavior with particular attention paid to the issues of gender development; premarital, marital, and post-marital sexual patterns; birth control; sexual dysfunction; cross-cultural sexual patterns; and alternative sexual lifestyles.Cross-listed with SOC/WGS.
FSW 225.  Family School and Community Connections.  (3)
This course focuses on the theory and practice of joining families, communities, and schools to support student learning, development and success in education. Strategies to improve communication and collaboration are emphasized with a focus on family types, cultures, economic conditions, school systems, community services, political forces, advocacy groups, and other factors that impact children and their families. IC.Cross-listed with EDT 225.
FSW 242.  Family Decision-Making and Resource Management.  (3)
Explores individual and family/household decision-making behaviors throughout the lifespan related to the acquisition and allocation of resources in socially responsible ways. Examines the relationships between human needs, values, attitudes, and family/household characteristics and dynamics in individual and family decision-making. Emphasis is placed on families/households, as producing and consuming units, and their efforts to achieve their goals in global and environmental contexts. Attention is given to the roles of family life educators and other helping professionals in guiding individuals and families/households toward optimal well-being and quality of life as it relates to families' management of resources.
FSW 245.  Children and Families: Ages Conception - 12.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Students in this course will examine the developmental contexts and theoretical perspectives of working with children and families. They will conduct in-depth analyses of the complex relationships between school, community and family resources in an educational setting. IIC.
FSW 261.  Diverse Family Systems Across the Life Cycle.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Introduction to and survey of the diversity of family systems. Emphasizes the North American experience while drawing upon global understandings. Covers the nature of family systems and how these may vary by social class, ethnicity, urban-rural residence, and other aspects of sociocultural context. Stresses how family systems change across their life span, as well as how individuals experience different family systems in their life spans. IIC.
FSW 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
FSW 283.  Introduction to Child Care Administration.  (3)
This course is intended for persons intending to work with young children and their families in a variety of child care settings and will focus on the development of knowledge and skills in understanding various aspects of child care administration and management. Offered on regional campuses only.
FSW 293.  Field Placement: Infant/Toddler Setting.  (3)
Course designed for students who are assuming teaching responsibilities for an extended period of time under guided supervision in an infant/toddler program. Offered on regional campuses only.Prerequisites: FSW 382; C- in EDT 273 & 274, EDP 201, & FSW 245.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: EDT 246 and EDT 272.
FSW 294.  Field Placement - Preschool Setting.  (3)
Course designed for students who are assuming teaching responsibilities for an extended period of time under guided supervision in a preschool program. Offered on regional campuses only.Prerequisites: C-or better in EDT 273 & 274, EDP 201, & FSW 245.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: EDT 246 and EDT 272E.
FSW 295.  Research and Evaluation Methods.  (3)
Techniques needed to understand and evaluate research within social work and family studies are explained. Quantitative and qualitative approaches to gathering and interpreting data are addressed.Cross-listed with KNH 295.
FSW 304.  Professionalism and Ethics for Practice.  (3)
This introductory practice course provides a foundation for students to develop and critically analyze the values, ethical codes, licensure regulations, and practice principles associated with social work and family life education professions. While formulating their professional identity as a social worker and family life educator, students will also have an opportunity to explore their personal values and beliefs systems, practice marketing themselves as future professionals, and cultivate interviewing and engagement skills. Opportunities to practice written and verbal professional communication strategies using various technological platforms are integrated throughout the course.Prerequisites: FSW 201, FSW 206 and declared social work major.
FSW 306.  Trauma Responsive Assessment and Intervention.  (3)
This course prepares students for generalist practice with individuals and families by incorporating a trauma-responsive lens to understand the impacts adverse experiences have on neurobiological and psychosocial development on individuals and family systems. This course provides students opportunities to enhance their knowledge and skills to engage, assess, intervene and evaluate client progress in direct practice settings.Prerequisites: FSW 201, FSW 206, and FSW 304; declared social work major.
FSW 312.  Human Behavior in the Social Environment.  (3)
Examines diverse human behavior through an integration of various theoretical perspectives using a social systems approach. A social systems approach provides a framework to view individuals in the context of the family, groups, organizations, communities, and institutions. Integrates knowledge and develops a foundation necessary for social work practice and social work field experience.
FSW 318.  Child Life Theory and Practice.  (3)
Application of knowledge of child and adolescent development to educate, prepare, and support children and their families in healthcare settings and the changes in family dynamics related to illness they experience. This course is taught by a Certified Child Life Specialist and meets one of the requirements of the Child Life Council to become a Certified Child Life Specialist.Prerequisite: FSW 245.
FSW 333.  Writing For Helping Professions.  (3)
The course focuses on developing ideas, pursuing knowledge, and conveying one’s thoughts through oral and written media in helping professions such as psychology, social work, and family science and in mastering skills needed in a variety of practices (e.g., clinical work, research, program evaluation, grant writing, case notes, treatment plans, assessments, and administration). The course emphasizes that strong writing skills with the ability to adapt writing to different tasks and audiences is critical for professional competency and career advancement. ADVW.
FSW 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
FSW 345.  Empowerment Skills in Family Development.  (3)
This introductory practice course provides students with opportunities to learn and develop foundational skills aimed at empowering families in their quest for healthy self-reliance. Using the national curriculum of the Family Development CredentialTM, students will apply research-driven practices in engagement and communication skills with diverse populations while exploring the importance of self-care in helping professions. Upon successful completion of FSW 345 and FSW 346, students are eligible to apply for formal credentialing through the University of Connecticut for an additional fee.
FSW 346.  Advanced Practice Skills in Family Development.  (3)
Following the national curriculum of the Family Development CredentialTM, students will have opportunities to learn and practice advanced skills designed to empower families throughout the lifespan. Using a strength-based focus, students will learn how to apply ethical practices in setting goals with families, communication and engagement skills, and collaborating with other professionals in order to support families as they reach their ambitions for healthy-self-reliance. Students must successfully complete FSW 345: Empowerment Skills in Family Development prior to enrolling in this course. Upon successful completion of FSW 345 and FSW 346, students are eligible to apply for formal credentialing through the University of Connecticut for an additional fee.Prerequisite: FSW 345.
FSW 361.  Couple Relationships: Diversity and Change.  (3)
Investigation of intimate couple relationships in their many diverse forms. Focuses on social and psychological factors influencing development and maintenance of such couple relationships as dating, cohabitation, and marriage. General principles are discussed as well as factors that are more specific to certain age groups, relationship types, or sociocultural settings. IC.Prerequisite: three hours of social science.Cross-listed with WGS 361.
FSW 362.  Family Poverty.  (3)
Examines definitions, theories, causes and consequences of family poverty in the U.S. Identifies the extent and degree of U.S. poverty and demographic characteristics of those who are poor or likely to become poor. Consideration given to programs that reduce poverty and/or its negative effects, including those practiced in the past, those now practiced, and those that offer promise for improving the economic and social status of those who are poor. Costs and benefits of welfare and welfare reform and strategies for preventing poverty among future generations also discussed and evaluated. IC.Cross-listed with BWS 362 and SOC 362.
FSW 363.  Sociology of Families.  (3)
Analysis of the impact of social change on family systems and patterns, structures, dynamics, and social policy, with emphasis on differences by social strata and culture.Cross-listed with SOC 363.
FSW 365.  Family Life Sexuality Education Across Cultures.  (3) (MPT)
Addresses cultural issues related to sexuality education, sexual behavior, and sexual identity. Comprehensive overview of the biological and social aspects of human sexuality, specifically directed at training for family life educators. Differences in cultural background are examined and presented as powerful educational tools to be applied toward the improvement of communication about sexuality. Presents a variety of teaching strategies for different age groups, which will meet licensure requirements for family life educators.
FSW 375.  Perspectives on Child Maltreatment and Child Advocacy.  (3)
This course covers the history of child maltreatment and child advocacy in the United States and around the world, the current theoretical perspectives for understanding child maltreatment, the definitions of child maltreatment, an introduction to the professional responses to child maltreatment, an introduction to advocacy for children and contemporary issues in the fields of child maltreatment and child advocacy.
FSW 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
FSW 382.  Infant and Toddler Caregiving and Supervision.  (3) (MPT)
For those who plan and provide care for infants and toddlers in families and in various types of child care settings. Concepts in care provided with activities to help students develop caregiving knowledge and skills. Offered on regional campuses only.
FSW 385.  Global Child Advocacy Issues.  (3)
The course is designed to increase student understanding of the lives of children growing up in various countries around the globe. The purpose of this course is to prepare students to recognize health, maltreatment, cultural, religious, political, and social advocacy issues in the child’s country that affect the welfare and well-being of the child. The overall goal of this course is to increase understanding of the role of the advocate and be able to demonstrate advocacy skills for a chosen population.
FSW 406/FSW 506.  Group Theory and Practice.  (3)
This course focuses on the application of a generalist, social systems framework for social work groups and community practice. A wide range of content, modalities, theories, and treatment approaches for effective group work and community practice are presented. Emphasis is placed on deepening social work practitioner group practice skills with various at-risk and vulnerable populations as well as content for understanding inclusive practice with organizations and communities. Students learn group and community inclusive practice content that identifies client issues, their problems, and their needs for collaborative service delivery. Course content also includes identifying, assessing, analyzing, documenting, and implementing empirically based group and community interventions; applying empirically-based group and community knowledge and technological advances, and providing leadership for supportive services that promote social and economic justice on behalf of client systems in relation to their broader environments.Prerequisite: Grade of "C" or better in FSW 201 and FSW 206 and FSW 304; social work major or social work graduate student status.
FSW 411.  Senior Field Experience I.  (4)
Provides social work majors with the opportunity to integrate and apply liberal education foundation and generalist social work knowledge and skills gained in the classroom by practicing with various sized systems, including individuals, families, groups, agencies, communities, and institutions. EL.Prerequisite: Completion of FSW 304, FSW 306, and FSW 406/FSW 506, and social work major status.Co-requisite: FSW 412.
FSW 412.  Senior Seminar in Social Work I.  (2)
Provides opportunity to continue the integration of liberal education requirements and social work courses with field experiences.Co-requisite: FSW 411.
FSW 413.  Senior Seminar in Social Work II.  (2)
Provides opportunity to continue the integration of liberal education requirements and social work courses with field experiences. Focuses on experiences and knowledge regarding macro-level systems, however, students are expected to integrate and apply generalist social work knowledge and skills with multi-level, diverse systems.Co-requisite: FSW 411.
FSW 414.  Senior Field Experience II.  (4)
Provides social work majors with the opportunity to integrate and apply liberal education foundation and generalist social work knowledge and skills gained in the classroom by practicing with various sized systems, including individuals, families, groups, agencies, communities, and institutions. EL.Prerequisite: Completion of FSW 304, FSW 306 and FSW 406/FSW 506, social work major status, and permission of the instructor.Co-requisite: FSW 413.
FSW 415/FSW 515.  Culturally-Informed Practice.  (3)
In this course, we explore how individuals and families experience, organize, and negotiate their membership in the full range of social categories. The intersectionality of power, race, class, gender and other identities will be examined as it relates to individuals, families, and social groups. Students will learn about the impact of personal biases and values when working with diverse constituencies.
FSW 418/FSW 518.  The Family Life Education Process.  (3) (MPC)
In-depth examination of family life education process. Students gain understanding of educational principles to develop curricula for various family life education settings. Program design, delivery, and evaluation are covered.Prerequisite: FSW 295 or SOC 262.
FSW 435/FSW 535.  Death Studies.  (3) (MPT)
Examines social processes involved in the meaning, management, and experience of death and dying. Analyzes death as it relates to social structure, patterns of social interactions, and human experience.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; SOC/SJS 165; or GTY 154; or FSW 261.Cross-listed with SOC.
FSW 442/FSW 542.  Family Resource Management: Education and Advocacy.  (3)
In this course students will engage in critical analysis while exploring individual- and family-level goal setting and decision-making with regard to the identification, development, acquisition, and allocation of resources (e.g., time, energy, friends, neighbors, natural environment, money, material assets, and space). The processes by which families manage their resources are complex and often influenced by many factors including relationships with current and past family members; the political, economic, and social environment; interactions with available resources in their community; and patterns of interaction within and between family members and others outside the family. This course will also discuss advocacy strategies for promoting environmental and economic justice.Prerequisite: FSW 261 or FSW 225 or EDT 225 or FSW 242.
FSW 445/FSW 545.  Therapeutic Play for Child Life Specialists.  (3)
This course introduces theories of play and outlines the relationship between theories of human development and theories of play. Students pursuing certification as child life specialists will examine elements of play, benefits of play, and various therapeutic play modalities for the clinical setting as a force for healing and enhancing the well-being of children and families. Opportunities to develop and practice therapeutic play skills will be provided.Prerequisite: FSW 245 for FSW 445/FSW 545.
FSW 450/FSW 550.  Special Problems.  (1-4; maximum 8)
Various topics offered across semesters, professors, or sections. Prerequisite: upperclass or graduate standing in family science and social work.
FSW 451/FSW 551.  Family Violence.  (3) (MPC)
Analysis of research and theory on family violence, physical abuse of children, sexual abuse, neglect, premarital abuse, wife abuse, gay/lesbian battering, elder abuse, prevention and intervention. Basic framework is ecological/feminist, emphasizing an examination of family dynamics as well as broader historical, social, and patriarchal contexts.Cross-listed with SOC451 and WGS 451/WGS 551.
FSW 455.  Professional and Systematic Responses to Child Maltreatment.  (3)
The purpose of this course is to prepare students to recognize the effects of child maltreatment and apply intervention strategies for children and their families. Multidisciplinary approaches to prevention, advocacy and treatment of child maltreatment survivors will be presented and discussed. The overall goal of this course is to improve outcomes related to child maltreatment through case management. This course involves an experiential lab designed around observation and interaction with children.
FSW 462/FSW 562.  Family Policy and Law.  (3) (MPC)
Examines family policies related to U.S. families' well-being using an ecological framework. Considers the impact of family policies/laws at state and federal levels including: policy development, implementation, and evaluation; and roles of professionals in building/influencing family policy.Prerequisite: FSW 295 or SOC 262.
FSW 466/FSW 566.  Interpersonal Perspectives on Adulthood and Aging.  (3) (MPT)
Examination of the central importance of close relationships in adulthood. Topics include long-term intimate relationships, sexuality/sexual behavior, dating, singlehood, divorce, widowhood, parent-adult child relationships, siblings' grandparenthood, friendships, retirement/financial concerns, caregiving, and policy issues impacting close relationships in adulthood.
FSW 475/FSW 575.  Family Theories.  (3)
Analysis of selected theories of the family. Emphasis placed on conceptual knowledge, understanding of the importance of family theories and in-depth analysis of several theoretical frameworks, such as family process, conflict, and symbolic interaction.Prerequisite: six hours of family sciences courses and upperclass or graduate standing, or by permission of instructor.
FSW 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
FSW 481/FSW 581.  Adolescent Development in Diverse Families: Ages 13-25.  (3) (MPT)
Students will engage in an interdisciplinary examination of the fields of adolescent development and emerging adulthood from contextual and cross-cultural perspectives. The racial, ethnic, and cultural diversity of adolescents is considered while studying persons 13-25 years of age within family and social systems. Topics include identity development, peer relations, sexuality, gender norms, physical and emotional development, community resources and engagement, intimate relationships, parent-adolescent relationships, and other family and social influences during adolescence and emerging adulthood.
FSW 490/FSW 590.  Professional Issues in Family Science.  (3)
Seminar focusing on preparing family studies majors, minor, and graduate students for life (work or continued education) in the field. Topics and skill development that are covered include: family studies as a profession (e.g., what do I do with my degree?); applying for a job (e.g., resumes, cover letters, interviewing skills, job searching); professional ethics; applying for graduate school (e.g., choosing graduate programs; statements of professional goals, etc); developing a professional portfolio; and an introduction to the grant writing process.
FSW 491/FSW 591.  Seminar in Family and Child Studies.  (1-4; maximum 4)
Various topics offered across semesters, professors, or sections. Prerequisite: upperclass or graduate standing in family science and social work.
FSW 494/FSW 594.  Internship with Families and Children.  (3-6; maximum 6)
Students participate in a professional work environment, prepare written reports and journals, and complete a project. Students build upon previous knowledge and experience by working within, and critically appraising, a professional setting related to families and/or children. Focus is on professional development and the critical appraisal of career options. Students wishing to become Certified Family Life Educators must complete 125 clock hours and focus their internship experiences on the practice of family life education or prevention. Coursework is completed online. EL.
FSW 600.  Independent Reading.  (1-4; maximum 4)
Planned reading in any field in family studies with guidance of a department faculty member.Prerequisite: advanced standing, nine semester hours in family studies and social work, and approval of the plan by department chair.
FSW 602.  Diverse Families in Context.  (3)
This course will provide students an opportunity to examine how changing social and economic policies and laws have had an impact on diverse families, primarily in the U.S. Students will assess how macro-level forces, including family privilege in policymaking, have played out in these families’ everyday lives and have advantaged some family forms over others. As explicit and implicit family policy topics (e.g., marriage, immigration, health care) are explored, the role that personal and cultural values play in the policymaking process will be addressed. Further, learning how to influence family policymaking and to effect systems-level change will be a primary focus of the course. The instructor’s area of expertise will determine which types of families (e.g., LGBTQ families, Black families, families experiencing illness) will be centered during any given semester.
FSW 611.  Social Welfare Policy I.  (3)
Social Welfare Policy I provides an overview of social welfare and social work as a profession. An overview of U.S. Social welfare services are provided in the context of social work values and ethics. This course includes a critical analysis of historical and current interactions of social welfare policies, programs, and services with diverse recipient populations.Prerequisite: admission to the MASW Program.
FSW 612.  Social Welfare Policy II.  (3)
Social Welfare Policy II emphasizes issues such as racism, poverty, and community building. Policy analysis and development is taught from the point of view of agency management, community organizers/planners, and policy advocates. Attention is paid to policy development important to racial and ethnic groups and women as well as gay and lesbian persons. The historical development of major U.S. community policy initiatives is addressed as well as contemporary community policy issues at the federal, state and local levels. This course builds upon the policy analysis frameworks developed in Social Welfare Policy I to develop a higher level of critical thinking and comptency used to address social welfare policy issues at all levels of the social welfare and social work systems.Prerequisite: admission into the MASW program and Social Welfare Policy I.
FSW 613.  Social Work Ethics: Social Work Ethics, Professionalism and Self Care.  (3)
This course introduces graduate social work majors to the ethical practice of social work from a generalist perspective, including professional conduct and self care awareness and skills. Students will increase their understanding of the history and evolution of values and ethics in the social work profession, and develop skills in applying relevant ethical concepts and theories to social work practice. Students will also increase their ability to recognize ethical issues and to apply ethical decision-making frameworks and protocols through enhanced use of critical thinking skills. Lastly, students will learn self care awareness and skills needed to decrease incidents of vicarious trauma in social work settings.Prerequisite: admitted to MASW Program.
FSW 616.  Graduate Social Work Research I.  (3)
This is the first of three research courses required in the Master of Arts in Social Work (MASW) Program. Students will learn basic skills of quantitative and qualitative social research methodology and techniques of gathering, analyzing and interpreting data. Students will evaluate research reports for relevance to practice with at-risk and underserved populations. Students will develop an initial research or evaluation design for social work practice.
FSW 617.  Human Behavior in the Social Environment I.  (3)
The course employs a social systems approach as the primary foundation for viewing families, groups, organizations, communities and social institutions. The course will utilize theories about human behavior to develop the foundation needed to learn effective social work practice.Prerequisite: admission to the MASW Program.
FSW 618.  Human Behavior and the Social Environment II.  (3)
This course is designed to provide an understanding of human behavior and development throughout the life span within its social context. Specific theories from the biological, psychological, social and cultural theory base are presented throughout the course, concurrent with the presentation of life span development. Human behavior is analyzed in terms of intrapersonal, familial and sociocultural phenomena. The course includes theories and knowledge about the range of social systems in which individuals live, including families, groups, organizations, institutions, and communities. The ecological persepctive provides a holistic basis for examining adaptive and maladaptive behavior, family processes and their effects on individual family members, and individual development and behavior in relationship to race, ethnicity, gender, social class, sexual orientation, and other aspects of diversity. The influences of prejudice, discrimination and oppression on individual, family and social functioning are addressed throughout the course. Theories are examined critically for their validity in recognizing human potential for growth and as a foundation for strengths-based social work practice, with an emphasis on empowerment. Attention is also given to ethics and social work values in evaluating theories and their application to practice.Prerequisite: admission to the MSW program and Human Behavior and the Social Environment I.
FSW 619.  Evaluating Clients & Programs.  (4)
In planning research and evaluation, attention must be focused on specifying the purpose of the research, identifying the variables, developing the instruments, human subjects protection, and research implementation. The aim of the course is to provide the student with a basic competence in the scientific method of investigation. In addition to understanding how to discover knowledge, students will become critical consumers of single subject design, program evaluation and integrators of social work knowledge from different areas of social work curriculum. Further, students will learn basic skills of quantitative social research methodology and statistical analysis.Prerequisite: MASW student or instructor permission.
FSW 621.  Social Work Practice I.  (3)
Social work practice I is designed to help students develop an understanding of the knowledge base and values of social work practice; acquire basic skills through the use of role-playing and simulated interviewing process. Specific attention is given to micro levels systems, emphasizing the interactions of micro systems with mezzo and macro level systems.Prerequisite: admission to the MASW Program.
FSW 622.  Social Work Practice II.  (3)
This course will focus on the continued application of theories, concepts and principles in direct social work practice. A wide range of treatment modalities are presented including individual, family, and group as well as psycho-social educational approaches. Focus on deepening skills with each of these popualtions and knowledge about social work practice is presetned. A particular focus is on empowerment, social and economic justice, groups, and communities.Prerequisite: FSW 621 and admission to the MASW Program.
FSW 640.  Internship.  (0-12; maximum 12)
FSW 641.  Concentration Focus Area Families and Children: Practice.  (3)
This is a concentration focus area course related to families and children. This course provides the knowledge, skills, and values needed for advanced generalist social workers to engage, assess, intervene, and evaluate direct practice with children and families. This course will include use of the DSM and other diagnostic tools that apply to children and families. This course will discuss clinical interventions with children and families.Prerequisite: admission into the MASW Program.
FSW 642.  Concentration Focus Area Macro: Families and Children.  (3)
This course focuses on U.S. social welfare policy with children and families. Particular attention is paid to social welfare policy analysis, the nature of social welfare system trends, and their impact on children and families. Completion of FSW 611 and FSW 612 is required. In addition, previous undergraduate course work in social welfare policy is strongly suggested, as well as a basic statistics course, taking such a course simultaneously is strongly suggested.Prerequisites: FSW 611 and FSW 612 and enrollment in MASW program or permission of instructor.
FSW 645.  Concentration Focus Area Older Adults: Practice.  (3)
This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of advanced generalist practice with older adults. A life course perspective that incorporates cultural, economic, historical and structural contexts that provides the framework for examining aging-related issues, particularly in regards to the impact on the quality of life of older adults. Topics to be explored include cross-cultural issues, health and mental health, social theories of aging, and resilience in older persons of color, among others.
FSW 646.  Older Adults: Macro Practice.  (3)
This course provides the knowledge, skills, and values needed for advanced generalist social workers to engage, assess, intervene, and evaluate policy practice with older adults. This course will include policies and programs that specifically target positive outcomes for older adults.
FSW 661.  Field Education I.  (2)
Field education is the signature pedagogy of social work education. Student in Social Work Field Education I must complete 300 hours of field education experience in the community. Field education provides the opportunity for the student to engage in selected and organized activities, with or on the behalf of clients, that apply the social work skills, knowledge, and values learned in the classroom. In field education, students meet a range of clients, encountering diversity, and growing in their self-awareness and abilities to help clients of various backgrounds and with different problems.Prerequisite: admission to MASW Program.
FSW 664.  SW Field Education Seminar I.  (1)
The seminar is specifically designed to integrate the Field Education I experience and coursework, and is offered to students admitted to the MASW Program.
FSW 667.  Policy and Politics of Aging.  (3)
Focuses on major policy areas including income security, health care, long-term care, housing, and social services.Cross-listed with GTY 667.
FSW 668.  Treatment of Substance Use Disorders.  (3)
This course reviews the diagnostic criteria and various treatment options for individuals and families afflicted with Substance Use Disorders. Embedding principles associated with addiction neuroscience, addiction theories, and trauma-informed care, this course provides students with the knowledge and skills needed to provide clinical interventions associated with addiction and co-occurring mental health diagnoses. Evidence-based approaches are introduced throughout the course to support students’ learning and development when recommending treatment options that incorporate the impacts and relationships between substance abuse and the socio-environmental factors of vulnerability within diverse populations.
FSW 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
FSW 688.  Clinical Interventions in Social Work.  (3)
This course is designed to give advanced generalist social workers an opportunity to examine, compare and evaluate a variety of evidenced-based clinical approaches and interventions used in social work practice. Students will gain knowledge and understanding of the main tenets of each therapeutic approaches and/or intervention and will be encouraged to use critical thinking and analytical skills to compare and differentiate these various approaches. The course will focus on evidenced-based clinical interventions used for depressive, anxious, trauma, personality, and other related disorders.
FSW 700.  Masters Thesis.  (1-14)
Prerequisite: approval of faculty member.
FSW 716.  Graduate Social Work Research II.  (3)
This second research course concerns the data analysis component of social science research and program evaluation. The course covers the procedures for the rigorous, valid, reliable, and credible collection and analysis of quantitative and qualitative data to arrive at decisions that improve interventions and contribute to knowledge. Students will continue to develop the research design for their culminating research project.
FSW 717.  Social Work Capstone.  (3)
In this third research course, students implement a culminating research project following a rigorous qualitative and/or quantitative design to collect and analyze data to inform agency practice and/or policy decisions. Students must successfully complete the culminating research project to graduate.Prerequisite: FSW 616 and FSW 716 and admitted to the MASW Program.
FSW 723.  Social Work Assessment and the DSM.  (0-3)
Advanced social work practice builds on the foundation of social work practice I and social work practice II. Consistent with the field of social work, and the Family Studies and Social Work department, course content seeks to facilitate knowledge and competency in working with diverse populations. Content includes practice with individuals, children, families, communities and larger systems. Advanced social work practice will utilize an ecological systems framework and strengths perspective as contexts for the development of basic competencies. These skills are applied during the following stages of social work intervention: Engagement, Assessment, Intervention and Evaluation. Content will include the accurate application of DSM and other clinical assessment tools, an understanding of social deviance, and the application of clinical treatment models, such as cognitive, behavorial, strengths based, psychodynamic, psychoeducational and group approaches.
FSW 724.  Advanced Generalist Social Work II: Macro.  (3)
Advanced social work practice II teaches advanced generalist social work direct prartice skills with communities and organizations. these skills are applied during the following stages of social work interevention: Engagement, Assessment, Intervention, and Evaluation. Content will include community organization, locality development, advocacy, and legislative policy change. Content will also include skills to write grants to support funding of social service organizations.Prerequisites: FSW 616 and FSW 717.
FSW 761.  Advanced Standing Field Seminar.  (1)
The seminar is specifically designed to serve as an introduction to the field education at the masters' level in social work for advanced practice students. We will discuss the knowledge expected of advanced practice students as well as the competencies and practice behaviors which are defined by the Council of Social Work Education (CSWE). The focus of the course will be burnout prevention and getting your life in order to be a successful graduate student and social work practitioner.
FSW 762.  Social Work Field Education II.  (1-3)
Field education is the signature pedagogy of social work education. Students in Social Work Field Education II must complete 300 hours of field education experience in the community. Field education provides the opportunity for the student to engage in selected and organized activities, with or on behalf of clients, that apply the social work skills, knowledge, and values learned in the classroom. In field education, students meet a range of clients, encountering diversity, and growing in their self-awareness and abilities to help clients of various backgrounds and with different problems.Prerequisite: admitted to the MASW Program.
FSW 763.  Social Work Field Education III.  (1-3)
Field education is the signature pedagogy of social work education. Students in Social Work Field Education III must complete 300 hours of field education experience in the community. Field education provides the opportunity for the student to engage in selected and organized activities, with or on behalf of clients that apply the social work skills, knowledge, and values learned in the classroom. In field education, students meet a range of clients, encountering diversity, and growing in their self-field awareness and abilities to help clients of various backgrounds and with different problems.Prerequisite: admitted to the MASW Program.
FSW 765.  Social Work Field Education Seminar II.  (1-3)
The seminar is specifically designed to integrate the Field Education II experiences and coursework, and is offered with social work advanced generalist fieldwork and competencies.Prerequisite: admitted to the MASW Program.
FSW 766.  Social Work Field Education Seminar III.  (1-3)
The seminar is specifically designed to integrate the Field Education III experiences and coursework, and is offered with social work advanced generalist fieldwork and competencies.Prerequisite: admitted to the MASW Program.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel