Global Health Studies (GHS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Global Health Studies (GHS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Global Health Studies (GHS)
Global Health Studies (GHS)
GHS 101.  Introduction to Global Health.  (3) (MPF)
Introduces students to the complexity and ethical dilemmas of global health as a practical field that seeks to work with organizations and local communities to solve health problems. Students will learn to assess knowledge from multiple disciplines to thoroughly describe global health problems. This course is the required gateway to the Global Health Minor. IIIB.
GHS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GHS 201.  Data and Decisions in Global Health.  (3)
Develops understanding and skill interpreting different kinds of data (qualitative and quantitative) to understand, assess, and make ethical decisions regarding complex global health problems and the programs designed to address them. Required for the Global Health Minor. CAS-QL.Prerequisite: GHS 101.
GHS 301.  Seminar in Global Health.  (1; maximum 3)
Explores a variety of current issues and research in global health through in depth discussions and readings. Specific content will vary each semester according to current global health events and the specific perspectives of the professor. For Global Health Minors, this seminar must be repeated at least three times, and over multiple semesters students will be exposed to multiple disciplinary approaches to analyzing global health concerns. Required for the Global Health Minor.Prerequisite: GHS 101.
GHS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GHS 401.  Global Health Experience.  (2)
In conjunction with an approved off-campus experience and a GH faculty advisor, this independent study course enables students to gain a richer understanding of the complexities of global health issues in context, and specifically it offers students an opportunity to explore a global health question or concern that emerges as a result of their off-campus experience. Students are expected to present a literature review that addresses their global health question or concern, as well as a summary of the ways in which the experience has enriched their understanding of global health at a professional forum. This is a requirement of the Global Health minor and must be pre-approved by a GH advisor.Prerequisite: GHS 101 and completion of the GH methods requirement.
GHS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GHS 491.  Global Health Leadership.  (1)
Work in global health requires recognizing and integrating the skills and strengths of differently positioned people while collaboratively building a common vision. This practicum will encourage GHS minors to reflect on qualities of leadership and develop skills in negotiating team problem solving, facilitating the creativity and contribution of each team member, and coordinating contacts or networks of consultants to produce a viable grant proposal.Prerequisites: GHS 101 and GHS 301.Co-requisite: ATH 448.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel