Graduate School Community (GSC) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Graduate School Community (GSC)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Graduate School Community (GSC)
Graduate School Community (GSC)
GSC 601.  College Teaching Enhancement Program.  (1; maximum 2)
Orients graduate students and postdoctoral fellows to basic, practical issues related to college teaching, scholarship and service, and how these faculty roles are affected by institutional context. To be taken with membership in either the CTE Graduate Student Teaching Enhancement Program or the CTE PostDoc Teaching Enhancement Program.
GSC 602.  College Teaching.  (1)
Orients graduate students to theory and research in college pedagogy as well as teaching skills. Open to students in the Certificate in College Teaching program.Prerequisite: admission to Certificate Program in College Teaching.
GSC 603.  Academic Cultures.  (1)
The purpose of the course is to orient graduate students to basic, practical issues related to college teaching, scholarship and service, and how these faculty roles are affected by institutional context. Open to students in the Certificate in College Teaching program.
GSC 640.  Internship.  (0-12; maximum 6)
GSC 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GSC 700.  Thesis Completion for Graduate Students.  (0-9; maximum 18)
This course is for students who are within two semesters of completing their thesis. It is only available with permission of the graduate school.Prerequisites: Successful completion of course work; permission of the graduate school.
GSC 850.  Dissertation Completion for Graduate Students.  (0-9; maximum 18)
This course is for students who are within two semesters of completing their dissertation. It is only available with permission of the graduate school.Prerequisites: Successful completion of comprehensive exams; permission of the graduate school.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel