Gerontology (GTY) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Gerontology (GTY)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Gerontology (GTY)
Gerontology (GTY)
GTY 110.  Opening Minds through Art (OMA) Volunteer Experience.  (1; maximum 3)
OMA is an intergenerational visual art program for people with dementia. It is grounded in the belief that people with dementia are capable of expressing themselves creatively. Its approach is to capitalize on what people with dementia can still do. OMA currently offers its program at multiple sites that serve people with dementia in long-term care facilities, adult day centers and those living at home. OMA has four primary goals: 1) to promote the social engagement, autonomy, and dignity of people with dementia by providing creative self-expression opportunities; 2) to provide staff and volunteers with opportunities to build close relationships with people with dementia; 3) to show the public the creative self-expression capacities of people with dementia through exhibitions of their artwork; and 4) to contribute to the scholarly literature on dementia care and the arts. In this Service-Learning course you will volunteer weekly in the OMA program. IC.
GTY 154.  Big Ideas in Aging.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Overview of the processes of aging, with an emphasis on "big questions" such as why does aging matter, how do we study aging, why do people age in different ways, what are the diverse work and living conditions of older adults, and how do formal and informal programs influence the aging experience? IIC. CAS-C.
GTY 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GTY 244.  Pre-Internship in Gerontology.  (2)
In this course students develop their gerontological voice and prepare for their capstone internship. Topics include networking and careers in the aging network, development of short- and long-term professional goals, preparing a resume and cover letter, marketing one’s self as a gerontologist, and professional and practice ethics.Prerequisite: GTY 154.
GTY 260.  Global Aging.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Integrates bio-demographic and socio-cultural approaches to the study of global aging by drawing on cross-cultural quantitative and qualitative data including ethnographic records. Developed and developing countries are compared and contrasted in terms of a wide range of issues related to aging, from global to local. The phenomenon of global aging is explored and addressed through active engagement with international organizations and individuals. IIIB, IC. CAS-C.
GTY 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GTY 310.  Opening Minds through Art (OMA) Leadership Experience.  (2; maximum 6)
OMA is an intergenerational visual art program for people with dementia. It is grounded in the belief that people with dementia are capable of expressing themselves creatively. Its approach is to capitalize on what people with dementia can still do. OMA currently offers its program at multiple sites that serve people with dementia in long-term care facilities, adult day centers and those living at home. OMA has four primary goals: 1) to promote the social engagement, autonomy, and dignity of people with dementia by providing creative self-expression opportunities; 2) to provide staff and volunteers with opportunities to build close relationships with people with dementia; 3) to show the public the creative self-expression capacities of people with dementia through exhibitions of their artwork; and 4) to contribute to the scholarly literature on dementia care and the arts. In this Service-Learning course you will have a leadership role in OMA. EL, IC.Prerequisite: GTY 110.
GTY 318.  Social Forces and Aging.  (3) (MPT)
Examines the social forces that shape the diverse experiences of aging for individuals and the social structures in which they live. Particular emphasis is given to sociological issues such as age stratification, the life course, demographic change and its effects, and societal aging as a force in social change. IC.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153 or SOC/SJS 165; or SOC/DST/EDP 272; or GTY 154.Cross-listed with SOC 318.
GTY 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
GTY 354.  Issues & Controversies in Aging.  (3)
Enables students to explore issues such as end-of-life, theories of functional decline, responsibility for care of older people, and other sometimes controversial topics. ADVW.Prerequisite: GTY 154.
GTY 357.  Medical Sociology.  (3)
Sociological study of illness, patients, medical professionals, and problems inherent in the delivery of health care services.Prerequisite: SOC 151, SOC 153 or GTY 154.Cross-listed with SOC 357.
GTY 362.  Data & Decision Making in Aging.  (3) (MPT)
Students will apply the principles of research methods to topics that are directly relevant to agencies/organizations that plan for/provide services for older adults. Throughout the semester, agency liaisons will provide perspective on questions of importance to their organizations, and reinforce how research findings are used in the organization. A specific example based on existing data related to aging services will be used throughout the semester to illustrate all steps in the applied research process, from conceptualization to reporting findings. Students will work in teams to create an applied research question, analyze existing data to answer the question, and present their findings. CAS-C.
GTY 365.  Social Policy and Programs in Gerontology.  (3)
Provides practical information about working in programs serving older people. Topics include social policy and old age, health policy and programs, federal economic reform, grantsmanship, program planning and coordination, and professions in the field of aging.Prerequisite: GTY 154.
GTY 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GTY 440.  Gerontology Capstone Internship.  (1-16; maximum 16) (MPC)
Through field placement and a weekly seminar, students discuss their field site organization and professional challenges. EL.Prerequisites: GTY 154, three additional credit hours in gerontology, or permission of instructor.
GTY 456/GTY 556.  Aging & Health.  (3)
As individuals grow older, they experience a variety of physical and social changes that influence their health and well-being. In this course, topics such as age-related changes in health and illness, psychosocial and behavioral factors that contribute to those changes, and health promotion and disease management among older adults are explored.Prerequisite: GTY 154.
GTY 460/GTY 560.  Selected Topics in Gerontology.  (2-4; maximum 10)
Draws upon current literature and research for in-depth consideration of selected special topics in gerontology.Prerequisite: GTY 154.
GTY 465.  Policies & Programs in an Aging Society.  (3)
This course examines the policy debates faced by the United States as it becomes an aging society. Organized around such topics as income maintenance and health care, the seminar will describe and debate policy issues that arise as the older population in the U.S. continues to increase.Prerequisites: GTY 154 and GTY 365 or permission of instructor.
GTY 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GTY 479/GTY 579.  Research on Inequality in Aging & Health.  (4)
This course examines health inequalities, unequal access, and usage of health care as they relate to aging. Topics include health conditions, social environments, caregiving, and access to and utilization of health services and resources. The emphasis is on intersections of various inequality systems (e.g., race/ethnicity, socioeconomic class, gender) and how age interacts with them to produce and reinforce health inequalities.
GTY 601.  New Frontiers in Aging.  (3)
This online course provides social entrepreneurs who are interested in the mature market with an overview of the processes of aging. The course offers students the opportunity to think critically about aging from a life course perspective and explore the impact of growing old on the lives of individuals and society. Students consider several key themes over the course of 10 weeks: Why does aging matter? How do we study aging? Why do people age in different ways? What are the diverse work and living conditions of older adults? How do formal and informal programs influence the aging experience?.
GTY 602.  Perspectives in Gerontology.  (3)
Overview of theories and major issues in social gerontology including the development of the field.
GTY 608.  The Logic of Inquiry.  (4)
Presents detailed information about, and experience with, aspects of research design in social gerontology including conceptualization, measurement, sampling, analysis, and reporting. Examines inductive and deductive approaches to research questions and the use of national electronic data sets.Prerequisite: admission into the MGS or MPSG program or permission of the instructor.
GTY 609.  Qualitative Research Methods.  (3)
Provides an introduction to the paradigmatic assumptions of qualitative research methods and strategies of data collection, analysis, and writing. Focuses on research questions and issues in gerontology.
GTY 611.  Linking Research and Practice.  (3)
Application of principles of research methods to agency-based evaluation of programs. Focuses on the uses and design of program evaluation research, including program initiation, process evaluation, and outcome assessment. Includes a component on grant-writing and budgeting for evaluation activities.Prerequisites: GTY 602, GTY 608.
GTY 612.  Innovations and Trends in the Aging Marketplace.  (3)
This online course is designed to identify important trends in aging that will generate start-up ideas for social entrepreneurship ventures . Topical areas serve as the catalysts for ideas aimed at social entrepreneurs who want to launch an entrepreneurial venture related to aging. The areas of focus for the course include: Entrepreneurial Ideas in Aging; Science & Technology Innovation; Living Arrangements & Family; Work, Retirement & Encore Careers; Leisure, Learning & Civic Engagement; Health & Healthcare Systems; Long Term Services & Supports; Retail Markets & Aging Consumers.Prerequisite: GTY 601.
GTY 615.  Readings in Gerontology.  (1-5; maximum 6)
Directed readings on selected topics in gerontology, for pass/fail grade.
GTY 620.  Supervised Research or Reading on Selected Topics in Gerontology.  (1-5; maximum 6)
Research on selected topics or problems in gerontology.
GTY 640.  Internship.  (0-20)
GTY 641.  Organizations and the Aging Enterprise.  (3)
Prepares graduate students for the practicum. Topics include types of aging-related organizations; organizational theory and behavior; organizational analysis; and professionalism (e.g., goal setting, ethical issues).
GTY 667.  Policy and Politics of Aging.  (3)
Focuses on major policy areas including income security, health care, long-term care, housing, and social services.Cross-listed with FSW.
GTY 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
GTY 686.  Global Health and Health Care Systems.  (3)
Focuses on concepts, issues, and research addressed to health care systems from a comparative standpoint. Explores the uniform and the variable components of a health care system, the product of health care systems, how health care systems reflect and promote the values and institutions of a society, and how the major components of modern medicine relate to each other and to pre-modern or alternative components.Prerequisite: GTY 602 or permission of instructor.
GTY 700.  Critical Inquiry In Gerontology.  (1-6)
Guided independent research required as a culminating, integrative experience for MGS/MPGS students. Students will design and execute a project that involves either original data collection, secondary data analysis, or critical analysis of policies and programs in the field.
GTY 702.  Knowledge Construction & Advanced Theory.  (3)
Examines the epistemological and ideological underpinnings of knowledge construction and explores the reciprocal relationship between theories and dominant research questions with particular emphasis on theory construction in gerontology. Builds on and reexamines issues and topics discussed in GTY 602 and GTY 608.
GTY 705.  Oral and Written Communication for Gerontologists.  (3; maximum 6)
Advanced communication of gerontological knowledge, with an emphasis on communicating to professional audiences and the publication process. By the end of the course, doctoral students will produce a manuscript or grant application that is submitted for review; MGS students will produce their culminating paper. Both groups of students will present an oral presentation based on their work.
GTY 708.  Quantitative Methods and Statistics.  (4)
Explores basic designs of survey and experimental research in aging. Discusses issues of measurement, sampling, causality, the concept of the sampling distribution as the basis for inferential statistics, and introductory and intermediate statistical techniques for continuous and categorical data.Prerequisite: GTY 608 or permission of the instructor.
GTY 709.  Advanced Qualitative Research & Methods.  (4)
Builds on GTY 609 by focusing on the major genres in qualitative research, including participant observation, organizational case studies, phenomenological and narrative interpretation, participatory action research, and qualitative evaluation/policy research. Stresses practical mastery of strategies and skills in particular genres, according to students' dissertation interests.
GTY 718.  Statistical Modeling in Gerontology.  (3)
Focuses on statistical modeling techniques for continuous and categorical outcomes in aging research. Examines multivariate techniques based on the generalized linear model with opportunities for application using large scale gerontological datasets with special focus on longitudinal data analysis.Prerequisite: GTY 708 or permission of instructor.
GTY 745.  Sociology of Aging.  (3)
Examines the sociological perspective, its contributions to social gerontology, and its application to issues facing an aging society. Reviews the role of major sociological theories and frameworks (such as structural functionalism, exchange, and conflict theories) in the development of social gerontology.
GTY 747.  Demography & Epidemiology of Aging.  (3)
Explores fertility, mortality, and global aging; distribution of health and illness within a population; age-based migration and its impact on locations of origin and destination; variations in health and mortality by gender, race, ethnicity, and social class; impact of health and mortality patterns for individuals, society and public policy.
GTY 750.  Special Topics in Advanced Quantitative Methodology in Aging Research.  (1-4; maximum 20)
Examines advanced quantitative methodology techniques in aging research. Specific special topical sections focus on particular quantitative methodologies including those techniques needed for working with longitudinal data and those that address issues of age, period, and cohort effects. Some sections have data analysis laboratory requirements.Prerequisite: GTY 718 or permission of instructor.
GTY 751.  Categorical Modeling in Aging.  (3)
Applied statistical analysis techniques appropriate for categorical dependent variables (outcomes). Analysis techniques include logistic, ordinal, and multinomial regression, and techniques for analyzing count data (such as Poisson regression). Applications will be drawn from gerontological research.Prerequisites: GTY 718 or equivalent, or permission of instructor.
GTY 790.  Pre-Candidacy Doctoral Research in Gerontology.  (1-12; maximum 12)
GTY 850.  Doctoral Dissertation Research.  (1-16; maximum 60)
Prerequisite: successful completion of comprehensive examination.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel