Honors (HON) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Honors (HON)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Honors (HON)
Honors (HON)
HON 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
HON 181.  Foundations of Engaged Learning I.  (1-2; maximum 2)
Introduces students to the mission, requirements and portfolio review process of the University Honors Program. Sections vary in theme, yet all sections foster the development of inquiry, academic and leadership skills and personal reflection. This course is required for all first-year, first-semester students in the University Honors Program , and it is credit/no credit only.
HON 190.  Introductionary Honors Experience.  (0-2; maximum 10)
Students will have the opportunity to learn and practice authentic research, service and leadership tasks and activities designed by and under the careful supervision of a faculty, staff or other trained educator. These learning experiences may include (but are not limited to) undergraduate research programs, intensive introductory Service-Learning and community engagement programs, and substantive leadership experiences. The experience involves ongoing self-reflection. This course is credit/no credit only.
HON 290.  Intermediate Honors Learning Experience.  (0-2; maximum 10)
Students will have the opportunity to practice authentic research, service and leadership tasks and methods using guided support. These learning experiences may include (but are not limited to) Honors seminars, undergraduate research programs, intensive Service-Learning and community engagement programs, and substantive leadership experiences such as serving as a peer mentor. This course is credit/no credit only.
HON 340.  Honors Internship.  (0-20)
HON 390.  Advanced Honors Experience.  (0-2; maximum 10)
Students will have the opportunity to design and complete a major scholarly, leadership, teaching or service-oriented project with ongoing mentorship from an expert. These learning experiences may include (but are not limited to ) designing and implementing curricula or a major co-curricular program, restructuring student organizations, or completing an article. The course involves ongoing self-reflection and is credit/no credit only.
HON 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel