Interdisciplinary (IDS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Interdisciplinary (IDS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Interdisciplinary (IDS)
Interdisciplinary (IDS)
IDS 151.  Diversity Seminar.  (1)
Seminars designed to enable students to take part in discussions involving difference, including those stemming from race, ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientation, physical ability, class and region. Seminar helps create an environment where students learn to engage the differences found on campus and in the world into which students graduate.
IDS 154.  Introduction to Study Abroad.  (2)
Introduces students to cultural basics, skills, and host-country specifics required for maximizing their study abroad experience and for respecting and interacting with people in other cultures. Students will consider questions, issues, and challenges that will be part of their travel, study, and daily lives while studying abroad and develop tools for increased cultural competencies.
IDS 156.  Study Abroad Reentry Seminar.  (1)
Guides students on a journey of unpacking their international travel experiences and reflecting on what it means to cross cultures. Along the way, students will explore their own identity while identifying ways to integrate their global experiences into their lives now and in the future. Limited to students who have studied abroad, including current international students here at Miami.
IDS 159.  Strength Through Cultural Diversity.  (3) (MPF)
Serves as an interdisciplinary introduction to diversity. A primary goal of this course is to facilitate students' abilities to build their cultural competencies and their abilities to work toward a socially just and inclusive world by providing the conceptual tools and vocabulary to think about, discuss and experience diversity. Topics covered include multiculturalism, ethnocentrism, prejudice, discrimination, privilege, the impacts of social and cultural change, and the engagement of students in the global community. IC, IIC, IIIB.
IDS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
IDS 206.  Diversity and Culture in American Film.  (3) (MPF)
Analysis of the representation of diversity and culture as portrayed in American motion pictures. IC, IIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with FST.
IDS 259.  Introduction to the Miami Tribe of Oklahoma.  (3) (MPF)
Offers an interdisciplinary examination of the Myaamia as a living people, within a living culture - a people with a past, present and future. Explores pre-contact economy, social and political organization; the historic period of contact, treaties and federal legislation and the cultural basis of Myaamia responses; and present-day issues of concern to the dependent sovereign nation of the Miami Tribe of Oklahoma. IIC, IC.Cross-listed with HST.
IDS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
IDS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
IDS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
IDS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel