Italian (ITL) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Italian (ITL)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Italian (ITL)
Italian (ITL)
ITL 101.  Beginner's Course.  (4)
Objective: to develop the four language skills of oral comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing.
ITL 102.  Beginner's Course.  (4)
Objective: to develop the four language skills of oral comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing.Prerequisite: ITL 101.
ITL 105W.  Intensive Elementary Italian.  (8)
Intensive course, offered only in summer abroad, covers work normally included in 101, 102. Allows student to take a full year's work in less than eight weeks, 15 hours per week.
ITL 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ITL 201.  Second Year Italian.  (3)
Review of grammar, writing skills, and augmentation of vocabulary and idiomatic expression, and an introduction to critical reading.Prerequisite: ITL 102 or 105 or equivalent.
ITL 202.  Second Year Italian.  (3)
Review of grammar, writing skills, and augmentation of vocabulary and idiomatic expression, and an introduction to critical reading. CAS-A.Prerequisite: ITL 201.
ITL 205W.  Intensive Intermediate Italian.  (8)
Intensive course, offered only in summer abroad, covers work normally included in 201, 202, plus structured conversation. Allows student to take a full year's work in less than eight weeks, 15 hours per week. CAS-A.Prerequisite: ITL 102 or 105 or equivalent.
ITL 221.  Italy, Matrix of Civilization.  (3) (MPF)
An investigation of Italian contributions to civilization through recorded history, from the cultures of the Etruscans and the Romans to contemporary Italians, taking into consideration the Italian peninsula's geography and history, the artistic outpouring of the Renaissance, the scientific revolution, opera, literature, cinema, emigration and immigration, and Italy's multi-ethnic future. Taught in English. No prerequisites. IIB. CAS-B.
ITL 222.  Italian American Culture.  (3) (MPF)
A survey and investigation of the history of Italian immigration in America, the development of Italian American communities across the land, and the contributions that Italian Americans have made to American society and culture. Taught in English. No prerequisites. IC, IIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with AMS/FST.
ITL 262.  Italian Cinema.  (3) (MPT)
Discussion and analysis of major movies and trends in Italian cinema. Topics may vary but attention is given to social and ideological implications of Italian cinema and the way movies produce a critique of cultural mores. Taught in English. No prerequisites. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with FST.
ITL 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ITL 301.  Culture, Society and Politics in Perspective.  (3)
Gateway to upper-level offerings in Italian. Organized around a theme developed by each professor, this class initiates students into the work of original analysis and creative interpretation. The course will include works from a variety of media, voices, and historical moments, from films to songs, journal articles to sonnets, theater to opera. Students will explore the relationships between cultural production, intended in a broad sense, and Italian society while gaining exposure to a range of approaches to, and theories of, reading. Students will hone their ability to present their ideas orally and in writing.Prerequisites: ITL 202 or ITL 205 or equivalent.
ITL 302.  Introduction to Italian Literature.  (3)
A survey of Italian literature, from classical to contemporary literature. Techniques for critical reading in major genres such as drama, poetry, visual art and prose with emphasis on historical and societal transformation across time. CAS-B-LIT. Taught in Italian.Prerequisite: ITL 202 or ITL 205 or equivalent.
ITL 305W.  Intensive Advanced Italian.  (8)
Students perfect their ability in the four language skills through practice in oral and written composition and are introduced to various aspects of Italian culture including literature, art, music, history, politics, etc., through lectures, reading, and discussion. Offered only in summer abroad. CAS-A.Prerequisite: ITL 202 or 205 or equivalent.
ITL 350.  Special Topics.  (3; maximum 6)
Examines works of Italian culture in a comparative and multidisciplinary fashion. Each offering of the course will be based on a particular theme. Students may take the course more than once provided that the topic is not the same as in a previous election. Taught in English.
ITL 364.  From Marco Polo to Machiavelli.  (3) (MPT)
Examination of Classical and Asian influences in Italian culture from the Middle Ages through the Renaissance. Works of Marco Polo, Dante, Petrarca, Boccaccio, the Italian Humanists, and Renaissance artists and writers, such Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Ariosto, Castiglione, and Machiavelli, including women poets, such as Vittoria Colonna, Gaspara Stampa, and Veronica Franco, are read and discussed against the historical background of Mediterranean trade and culture from the 13th through the 16th century, when the Italian peninsula was a crossroads between Europe, Africa, and Asia. Taught in English. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG.
ITL 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ITL 401.  Dante's Divine Comedy.  (3) (MPT)
Intensive examination of Dante's major work, The Divine Comedy, read in a bilingual edition. Lectures and discussion in English. No prerequisites. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG.
ITL 410.  Topics in Italian.  (3; maximum 9)
This course, taught in Italian, focuses on different topics in Italian literature and culture. Specific topics to be studied will be announced each time the course is offered. Students may take the course for credit up to three times, provided that  the topic of each offering is different each time. All readings, discussions, and assignments will be in Italian.Prerequisite: ITL 202 or 205, or the equivalent (two years of university-level Italian), or permission from the instructor.
ITL 420.  Italian Contributions to the World.  (3)
Students study aspects of Italian culture and write, share, critique, discuss, and revise essays on topic(s) studied in the course, in two genres: one for a specialized audience, with the aim of submitting it for a national essay contest, and the other for a popular audience, to submit for publication in the "travel" section of a newspaper, magazine, or e-publication.
ITL 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ITL 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ITL 680.  Independent Studies.  (1-6)
Independent work in Italian literature or language.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel