International Studies (ITS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
International Studies (ITS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·International Studies (ITS)
International Studies (ITS)
ITS 141L.  European Cities in Cultural Context/Luxembourg.  (1)
Deals with certain key European cities and considers for each its place in history, its development, the remaining landmarks of important events in the past, architectural and artistic masterpieces, important persons who lived there (statesmen, philosophers, musicians, etc.) and their contribution. Considers the present significance of the city in economic, political and cultural terms, as appropriate.
ITS 142L.  Great European Cities.  (1)
This course introduces students to the historic and cultural evolution of Europe from its ancient past to its contemporary process of economic and political integration. Students will be exposed to the multifaceted aspect of the present European mosaic and the search for a European identity.
ITS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ITS 201.  Introduction to International Studies.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Integration of core disciplines comprising international studies, with analysis of major world regions and issues. Recommended for freshmen and sophomores. IC, IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.
ITS 202.  Writing Policy Analysis.  (3)
This course is a required course for the major in International Studies and comprises the major's writing requirement. The course covers the fundamentals of policy analysis and writing policy recommendations as an analytical method for institutional engagement in understanding and seeking to solve complex international problems. The course is a prerequisite for ITS 302, ITS 365 and ITS 402. ADVW. CAS-W.Prerequisite: ITS 201.
ITS 208.  The Rise of Industrialism in East Asia.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to historic parameters, geographic variables, state policies, and sociocultural contexts of industrialism in East Asia (China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore). IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.Cross-listed with GEO/SOC.
ITS 254.  Introduction to Russian and Eurasian Studies.  (3) (MPF)
Examines the major developments that have shaped Russian and Eurasian Culture, society and politics over the last millennium. The course incorporates perspectives from the social sciences, humanities and the fine arts. IIB. ADVW. CAS-B.Cross-listed with ATH/CLS/HST/POL/REL/RUS.
ITS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ITS 301.  Intercultural Relations.  (3) (MPT)
This course bridges ITS 201 and the senior capstone, ITS 402, within the ITS major. Development of cultural awareness; in-depth study of theory and field-based research on the cross-cultural dynamics of cross-national encounters, trends, and events. CAS-C.Cross-listed with ATH.
ITS 302.  Problems of Non-Western Societies.  (3)
This course bridges the required ITS 202, Writing Policy Analysis course and the senior capstone within the ITS major. Examines a series of problems faced by developing societies. Topics include theories of national independence, technology, post-colonial hardships, and the role of the U.S. This course can be taken to complete part of the ITS core requirements or to complete one course requirement in the International Development concentration.Prerequisite: ITS 201.
ITS 333.  Global Development and Inequality.  (3)
Examines processes and outcomes of economic development in the modern era, emphasizing the interpretation of development measures and critiques of prevailing models. This course adopts an interdisciplinary perspective emphasizing the recent history and political, cultural, and geographic dimensions of economic development and the production of global patterns of inequality.Prerequisites: ECO 201 and ECO 202.
ITS 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
ITS 365.  Applied Topics in International Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
This course bridges the required ITS 202, Writing Policy Analysis course and the senior capstone within the ITS major. Students examine a series of cases about applied topics in global issues today. Students evaluate the cases from an interdisciplinary perspective and from the point of view of a policy analyst or participant. Examples of topics include global trade, human rights, UN decision making, veiling in Islam, and dictatorship. ITS 365 may be taken to complete a core requirement in the major and a separate section of ITS 365 may be taken to complete one course in the concentration requirement. A total of two different sections of ITS 365 can be taken for the major.Prerequisite: ITS 201, ITS 202.
ITS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
ITS 390.  Special Topics in International Studies.  (1-3)
Presentations and discussion of current international events. Students read the newspaper daily and reflect on global developments in human rights. Offered credit/no credit only.
ITS 402.  Senior Capstone in International Studies.  (3) (MPC)
Examination of approaches and diverse human relationships that comprise the field of international studies, with participants writing a group-project policy report.Prerequisite: international studies major with senior standing, who has previously completed either ITS 302 or ITS 365, or permission of instructor.
ITS 402N.  Problems of the Middle East.  (3)
ITS 402O.  Issues in Post-Soviet Euraisa.  (3) (MPC)
Examination of approaches and diverse human relationships that comprise the field of international studies, with participants writing a group-project policy report.Prerequisite: international studies major with senior standing or permission of instructor.
ITS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel