Journalism (JRN) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Journalism (JRN)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Journalism (JRN)
Journalism (JRN)
JRN 101.  Introduction to Journalism.  (3) (MPF)
Introduces issues facing news media in a democratic society. These include ethics, law, and press performance in the context of news criticism and journalism history. Students explore several journalistic modes and a variety of careers in journalism. They learn critical news consumption and several basic writing styles. IIB. CAS-B.
JRN 102.  Precision Language for News Writing.  (3)
A practical laboratory for English-language writing in the news style. The goal of the course is clear written communication for media writers and for other creative and business professionals. Key formal concepts can include the news lead and the inverted pyramid, differences in writing across platforms, writing about particular kinds of news or events, and attributing information to reliable sources.
JRN 120.  Scholars in Media Writing.  (3; maximum 6)
Writing for the Media: This class will introduce students to genres of nonfiction writing such as narrative nonfiction, memoir and documentary film writing. This two-course sequence is open only to first-year students selected to participate in the University Academic Scholars Program in Writing for the Media.
JRN 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
JRN 201.  Reporting and News Writing I.  (3)
Introduces basic news writing, news gathering, and interviewing. Emphasizes instruction and experience in writing for print and online forms. Prerequisite for all journalism writing and creative courses. ADVW.
JRN 202.  Reporting and News Writing II.  (3)
Refines media news writing skills acquired in JRN 201, with an emphasis on multiple-field reporting. Students produce cross-media content, working in broadcast and online forms.Prerequisite: JRN 201.
JRN 240.  Student Media Practicum.  (1; maximum 4)
This course introduces students to real-world journalism and media production through hands-on experience in student media. Students develop story ideas, conduct interviews and prepare news stories for student media. Students also have opportunities to attend weekly presentations about practicing journalism. Currently offered only for students who write one article every two weeks for the Miami Student.
JRN 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
JRN 301.  Journalism Law and Ethics.  (3)
Focuses on statutory and common law limitations on freedom of the press in America, and the legislative and judicial rationales for them. Considers ethical theories and their application to situations that journalists commonly encounter.
JRN 303.  Multimedia Journalism.  (3)
Explores the theory and practice of multimedia journalism. Topics include current forms of and social impact of multimedia reporting, particularly in online spaces. Students will also develop online multimedia news projects.Prerequisite: JRN 202.
JRN 310.  Topics in Journalism Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
Introduces students to a particular area of scholarship or research methodology within the academic discipline of journalism studies (such as content analysis, journalism history, cultural representations, journalism theory). Students in this class produce work intended for an audience of interested scholars (such as literature reviews or primary source, critical or content analyses) rather than for a general audience.Prerequisite: JRN 101.
JRN 313.  Digital Audio Reporting.  (3)
Advanced-level coursework emphasizing digital audio writing, reporting and editing . Students will learn to produce audio news stories across broadcast and online/podcast platforms.Prerequisite: JRN 202 or permission of instructor.
JRN 314.  Digital Video Reporting.  (3)
Advanced-level coursework emphasizing digital video writing, reporting and editing . Students will learn to produce video news stories across broadcast television and mobile platforms.Prerequisite: MAC 211 and JRN 202, major status, or permission of instructor.
JRN 316.  Editing and Design.  (3)
Introduces the roles of news producers and editors as key team members in print, broadcast, and online journalism. Topics to be covered include text editing, news values, and design principles, photo presentation and visual editing, audiences and interactivity.Prerequisite: JRN 201.
JRN 318.  Advanced Storytelling in Journalism.  (3)
Engages students in the art and craft of telling in-depth stories that inform, engage, compel, and entertain. These techniques involve reporting and writing alike, and they can be put to use in magazines, newspapers, books, websites, documentary film, and multimedia formats.Prerequisite: JRN 201.
JRN 333.  International Journalism.  (3)
Examines reporting from around the world, and evaluates and re-thinks the distinctly American vantage point and model of journalism by gaining exposure to broader treatment of international political, economic and cultural issues.
JRN 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
JRN 350.  Specialized Journalism.  (3; maximum 6)
Focuses on otating topics such as In-Depth Reporting, Business Reporting, Opinion Writing, Political Reporting, Sports Reporting, and Photojournalism.Prerequisite: JRN 201.
JRN 350P.  Specialized Journalism: Photojournalism.  (3)
Rotating topics, including In-Depth Reporting, Business Reporting, Opinion Writing, Political Reporting, Sports Reporting, Photojournalism, and Narrative Nonfiction Writing.Prerequisite: JRN 201.
JRN 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
JRN 412.  Public Affairs Reporting.  (3)
An advanced class that focuses on reporting about issues that affect people's lives. Students learn to locate and analyze data sets that shed light on those issues. They also learn to develop story ideas from such data, and to incorporate the data into elegantly written stories accompanied by effective visual representations of related data. CAS-QL.Prerequisite: JRN 201.
JRN 415.  Capstone in Television Journalism.  (4) (MPC)
Provides practicum experience in which students write, report, and produce a regularly scheduled television newscast aired on Oxford's cable television system. Participate in and evaluate all aspects of television news gathering and reporting process.Prerequisite: MAC 211, JRN 202, and JRN 314 or applied television journalism experience (subject to instructor approval if prereqs not met).
JRN 418.  Critical Writing in Journalism.  (3)
Focuses on theory and practice in reviewing books, stage productions, motion pictures, and concerts for mass media.Prerequisite: JRN 201 and JRN 318.
JRN 421.  Capstone in Journalism.  (3) (MPC)
Integrates theory and practice of journalism; issues of law, ethics, and history as they pertain to journalism. Topics vary each year.Prerequisite: JRN 201 and senior standing.
JRN 424/JRN 524.  Ethics and Digital Media.  (3)
Students will focus on key ethical issues related to online writing, communication, and visual design. Course will introduce key ethical principles, including principles of rhetoric, communication, and design ethics, as well as key principles of professional ethics as articulated in fields like professional writing, technical communication, and graphic design. Topics include intellectual property, access and universal design, privacy and surveillance, visual representation and manipulation, global communication and cultural difference, economic issues of justice and equity, and professional rhetorics.Cross-listed with ENG/IMS.
JRN 426.  Inside Washington.  (8)
Engages students in an intensive study of the contemporary Washington, D.C. - government institutions, public officials, journalists, consultants, staff, and interest groups - through reading, lecture, on-site observations, expert presentations, discussion, research, writing, and internships. Program conducted in Washington, DC.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.Cross-listed with MAC/POL.
JRN 427.  Inside Washington Semester Experience.  (4; maximum 4)
Engages students in an intensive study of the contemporary Washington, D.C. -government institutions, public officials, journalists, consultants, staff, and interest groups - through reading, lecture, onsite observations, expert presentations, discussion, research, and writing. Course is part of a 16-credit semester program conducted in Washington, D.C. Prerequisitess: permission of instructor.Co-requisites: JRN/MAC/POL 454; JRN/MAC/POL 377 or 477; JRN/MAC/POL 340.Cross-listed with MAC/POL.
JRN 429/JRN 529.  Environmental Communication.  (3)
Examines theories, principles, and methods for communicating environmental concepts and scientific information verbally, textually and visually to a range of audiences and stakeholders. Students will work with scientists, peer communities, clients, and focus groups to develop effective and appropriate environmental communications across mediums. Projects may include producing scientific posters, writing reviews of research projects on an environmental problem, preparing oral presentations, creating visual story of scientific work, interviewing scientists for a general news story, writing environmental proposals, and facilitating focus groups.Cross-listed with ENG/IES.
JRN 454.  The Washington Community.  (3-4; maximum 4)
This course focuses on the Washington, D.C., as a complex political-social system that is both the seat of American democracy and a metropolis with typical urban opportunities and problems. In this class, students will complement their study of the formal political and media systems in the "Inside Washington" course by focusing on the development and behavior of constituent communities within the city of Washington. Course is part of a 16-credit semester program conducted in Washington, D.C.Cross-listed with MAC/POL.
JRN 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel