Korean (KOR) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Korean (KOR)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Korean (KOR)
Korean (KOR)
KOR 101.  Beginning Korean I.  (4)
Introductory course designed to prepare learners to speak, comprehend, read and write basic Korean. It begins with an introduction to the Korean language and culture. By the end of the semester students will be able to produce simple questions and statements involving learned materials.
KOR 102.  Beginning Korean 2.  (4)
Introductory course designed to prepare learners to speak, comprehend, read and write basic Korean. Cultural material will be integrated with language practice activities. Students will learn to talk about themselves and handle most basic social situations.Prerequisite: KOR 101 or permission of instructor.
KOR 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
KOR 201.  Intermediate Korean 1.  (3)
Focuses on vocabulary building and integrating the five language skills, i.e., listening, speaking, reading, writing, and culture. Students will learn to communicate in most daily life situations, using appropriate speech styles.Prerequisite: KOR 102 or permission of instructor.
KOR 202.  Intermediate Korean 2.  (3)
Class discussions will center on a variety of situations that one is likely to encounter while living in Korea. The course is taught mainly in Korean. CAS-A.Prerequisite: KOR 201 or permission of instructor.
KOR 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
KOR 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
KOR 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel