Latin American Studies (LAS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Latin American Studies (LAS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Latin American Studies (LAS)
Latin American Studies (LAS)
LAS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
LAS 204.  Brazilian Culture Through Popular Music.  (3) (MPF)
Through music, lyrics and rhythms this course raises questions about history, national identity, social, religious, and ethnic diversity in Brazil. IIA, IIB, IIIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with BWS/FST/MUS/POR.
LAS 207.  Latin America before 1910.  (3) (MPF)
Focuses on Latin America and the Caribbean before the twentieth century through broad historical survey emphasizing cultural, geographical, political, and social developments in colonial and pre-colonial Americas. IIC. CAS-C.
LAS 208.  Introduction to Latin America.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
An interdisciplinary introduction to contemporary Latin America and the Caribbean through anthropology, art, geography, environment, film, history, literature, music, politics, sports and others. IC, IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.Cross-listed with ATH 206.
LAS 211.  Writing with Purpose: Interdisciplinary Inquiry and Communication.  (3)
This is an intermediate level course which enables students to investigate and discuss interdisciplinary practices of knowledge creation and dissemination. Students will practice a variety of writing and other communication strategies necessary for the effective dissemination of ideas to interdisciplinary audiences and the general public, and can expect to gain experience in working with a wide spectrum of interdisciplinary research, tools and methods while engaging intellectually in interdisciplinary modes of thinking, reading, listening, and speaking. ADVW.Cross-listed with AAA/AMS/BWS/WGS.
LAS 217.  Modern Latin American History.  (3)
Introduction to the major themes shaping Latin American history since independence, including US foreign policy; economic development; the discourses of race, ethnicity, class, and gender; cultural elements that either unite or distinguish Latin American countries.Cross-listed with HST.
LAS 243.  History of the Atlantic Slave Trade, 1400s to 1800s.  (3)
Development of European slaving activity in the African continent in the 15th through 19th centuries. Emphasis on the activities of Portuguese, Spanish, English, French and Dutch slavers, including the Middle Passage and also the less-studied slave trade in the Mediterranean and Indian Ocean. Identifies the economic forces, as well as the social consequences, of the ongoing slave trade.Cross-listed with BWS/HST.
LAS 254.  Latino/a Literature and the Americas.  (3) (MPF)
Study of literature by Cuban American, Puerto Rican, Central American, and Chicano/a writers, with an emphasis on political, social, and economic conflicts in the Americas. Specific study of writing in relation to ethnic identity formation and transnational communities. IC, IIB, IIIB. CAS-B-LIT.Cross-listed with ENG 254.
LAS 260.  Latin America in the United States.  (3) (MPF)
Interdisciplinary examination of historical, social, economic, and cultural forces that have shaped the experience of peoples of Latin, Hispanic, Latino/a background in the United States. IC, IIB, IIIB. CAS-B.Cross-listed with HST.
LAS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
LAS 300.  Special Topics.  (1-3)
Topics vary.
LAS 315.  Latin American Diaspora: Communities, Conditions and Issues.  (3)
Study realities and challenges of Hispanic-Latino communities in Southwest Ohio in the context of transnational connections that link communities across the Americas. Incorporates Service-Learning projects and community based research. IC.Cross-listed with AMS.
LAS 317.  The Arts of Colonial Latin America.  (3)
Explores the art of Iberia and Latin America, with a particular emphasis on the latter, from 1492 to 1810. Topics to be examined include conquest, assimilation, integration, and resistance as it informed the predominantly religious art and urban fabric of Latin America.Cross-listed with ART.
LAS 319.  Revolution in Latin America.  (3)
History of modern Latin America through the experience of revolution in the 20th century. Focus on diverse expressions of political and social change with emphasis on Cuba, Mexico, Nicaragua, and Brazil.Cross-listed with HST.
LAS 325.  Identity, Race, Gender, Class.  (3) (MPT)
Develops conceptual tools and critical perspectives that enable students to better understand and analyze the processes through which identities are constructed and experienced. Learning activities facilitate analysis of individual identities as experienced through the life cycle and across diverse cultural and subcultural contexts, and build a systematic understanding of the processes and dynamics through which identities and identity groups develop and interact. IC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with ATH/BWS/WGS.
LAS 332.  Latin American Popular Culture.  (3)
Interprets and contextualizes elements of Latino and Latin American popular culture (art, music, food, and celebrity) in light of academic readings in Spanish and English that explore issues of hybridity, representation, commodification, and the quest for authenticity. Conducted in Spanish and English.Prerequisite: SPN 311 or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with SPN.
LAS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
LAS 385.  Race, Science, and Disease in the Americas.  (3)
Surveys a variety of debates over race and disease since the European overseas expansion to the Americas, particularly in those regions that developed plantation-based agriculture. Begins with the medical and scientific construction of ideas about race from the conquest to the eighteenth century. Places the development of racial theories of sickness and health in a broad social and political context, and, in particular, explains the medical salience of race in the settings of slavery and colonialism. Discussions will focus primarily on Latin America, the Caribbean, and the United States, but will also explore the making of knowledge about race in global setting.Cross-listed with BWS/HST.
LAS 390.  Special Topics.  (3)
Topics vary.
LAS 410.  Current Latin American Issues.  (1-3) (MPC)
Apply academic knowledge of Latin America to contemporary issues by reading works by scholars, authors and artists; attending lectures and performances; and engaging in critical analysis and debate.
LAS 412/LAS 512.  Tropical Ecosystems of Costa Rica.  (5)
Introduces students to the structure and function of neotropical ecosystems, as well as to geological, biological, cultural, and economic forces affecting biodiversity in the tropics. This course is taught on-site in Costa Rica. There are additional costs beyond tuition.Cross-listed with GLG/IES.
LAS 413.  Tropical Marine Ecology.  (5) (MPT)
Investigates aquatic systems (estuaries, mangroves, coral reefs, seagrass beds, lagoons, beaches, intertidal zones, taxonomy of vertebrates and invertebrates of coral reefs, lagoons and tidal flats) paleobiology and global climate change (paleo-reconstruction of past lagoon environments, fossil coral reefs, and land use). Student research questions concerning biological and physical analyses of a select marine habitat are required. The course is taught on-site in the Florida Keys and the Bahamas. There are additional costs beyond tuition.Cross-listed with GEO/GLG 413/GLG 513 and IES 423/IES 523.
LAS 424/LAS 524.  Seminar on Modern Architecture in Latin America.  (3)
The course combines general background readings on the subject with specific readings on a selected group of countries, architects and projects based on a thematic organization. The faculty presents introductory lectures, while class members will present the results of individual and team research and analysis as assigned. Some of the analysis will be graphical, some will be written; all presentations will require illustrations of the work(s) in question.Cross-listed with ARC.
LAS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
LAS 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel