Liberal Studies (LST) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Liberal Studies (LST)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Liberal Studies (LST)
Liberal Studies (LST)
LST 302.  Principles of Liberal Studies.  (3)
Focuses on exploring the nature and purpose of a liberal studies education and gaining an in-depth understanding of key liberal studies skills and competencies. Through experiential learning, examine how liberal studies skills function in the professional world.Prerequisite: completion of 60 credit hours to declare the degree and take LST courses.
LST 402.  Capstone in Liberal Studies.  (3) (MPC)
Focuses on the application of knowledge from students cognate areas to develop solutions to real-world problems. As part of the Miami Plan, it emphasizes sharing of ideas, synthesis, and critical, informed action and reflection, and includes student initiative in defining and investigating problems. Culminates in an applied research project and oral presentation.Prerequisite: 96 hours registered or earned (senior standing).
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel