Media and Culture (MAC) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Media and Culture (MAC)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Media and Culture (MAC)
Media and Culture (MAC)
MAC 143.  Introduction to Media.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Introduction to major mass communication theories as a context to examining some major issues surrounding mass media in American society. IIB. CAS-B.
MAC 146.  Media Aesthetics.  (3)
This course is an introduction to media aesthetics. Students will develop an awareness of the artistic choices necessary for good media production and will be introduced to design elements and techniques available for use.Prerequisite: majors or permission of instructor.
MAC 167.  Practicum in Electronic Media Production.  (1)
Practicum experience to expose students considering a major in mass communication to the production process. Student participates in a minimum number of productions of media materials and must attend the pre- and postproduction discussion sessions. Offered only credit/no-credit. Students who must enroll for credit should petition the assistant chair for mass communication.Prerequisite: written permission of the instructor.
MAC 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MAC 209.  Advertising in Consumer Culture.  (3)
This course examines the historical and cultural roots of advertising in Western culture, identifying the critical components that have shaped and continue to shape its persuasive dimensions.
MAC 211.  Introduction to Video Production.  (4)
Introduction to electronic media production. Students become acquainted with fundamentals and techniques of sound production and elements involved in the design and production of video messages.Prerequisite: MAC 146, major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 212.  Media, Representation, and Society.  (3)
Survey of the place of electronic media in society. Topics covered include media and culture; media economics, industries, and institutions; politics of media content; media and social representation.Prerequisite: major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 213.  Writing for Media.  (3)
Basic course in writing for radio and television, and new media, with emphasis on scriptwriting for feature film and narrative for television; treatment of documentary subjects; introduction to narrative forms in new media.Prerequisite: MAC 146, or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with ENG.
MAC 215.  Media History.  (3)
Survey of electronic media history. Beginning with early experiments in electromagnetism, students examine development and impact of electronic media in the United States and international settings.Prerequisite: major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 258.  Copywriting for Electronic Media.  (3)
Basic course in writing for radio and television, and new media with emphasis on commercial, noncommercial, and promotional copywriting.Prerequisite: MAC 146, or permission of instructor.
MAC 267.  Practicum in Electronic Media Production II.  (1-3)
Practicum experience designed to expose students majoring in mass communication to the production process. Student participates in a minimum number of productions and must attend pre- and post-production sessions.Prerequisite: MAC 211, major status, or written permission of instructor.
MAC 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MAC 311.  Digital Film Production.  (3)
Experience in production and direction of television formats with emphasis on applied media aesthetics. Field production theories and exercises.Prerequisite: MAC 211, major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 312.  TV Studio Production.  (3)
Experience in the production and direction of television formats with emphasis on applied media aesthetics. Studio production theories and exercises.Prerequisite: MAC 211, major status, or permission of instructor.
MAC 325.  Social Media Cultures.  (3)
In this course, students will research and study the relationship between human social interaction and media. We will consider and compare both analog and digital forms of social media. Students will apply theories from cultural studies, media studies, and communication studies to both online and offline social media in order to understand the interaction between social practices and contemporary media cultures. Students critique and assess multiple forms of social media through active engagement with social media platforms, critical response papers, and final group projects.Prerequisite: MAC 143.
MAC 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
MAC 343.  Advanced Audio Production.  (3)
This course in an advanced study in audio production for the electronic media. Included topics are music recording, narrative and journalism. It includes studio procedures, microphone techniques, and control room operations. This class introduces the student to audio production theory and criticism. The course focuses on sound aesthetics and values, providing an overview of traditional sound production and the use of digital audio media.Prerequisite: MAC 211, major status, or permission of instructor.
MAC 353.  Audience Studies.  (3)
Introduction to audience analysis including review of services provided by media research organizations and procedures of applied survey research for the media. Prerequisite major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 355.  Media Technology & Culture.  (3)
Focuses on the relationships among technology, society, and communications (mass media and information systems), exploring key historical, cultural, and political/economic issues raised by new communication technologies.Prerequisite: major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 367.  Practicum in Electronic Media Production III.  (1-3)
Practicum experience designed to expose students majoring in mass communication to the production process. The student participates in a minimum number of productions and must attend the pre- and post-production sessions.Prerequisite: MAC 311 or 312, major status, or written permission of instructor.
MAC 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MAC 414.  Capstone Pictures: Project in Digital Narrative Film Production.  (4; maximum 8) (MPC)
In-depth production of a digital narrative film. This may involve conceptualizing, researching and writing; comprehensive budgeting and planning; creative design of visual and aural elements; management of a production team. Students meet regularly with other students to discuss progress, problems, issues and integrate ideas. Students work together to produce the film and present it to the Miami University community.Prerequisite: appropriate course work in a relevant area and permission of instructor.
MAC 422.  Advanced Creative Writing: Screenwriting Workshop.  (3)
Advanced workshop in feature film screenwriting. Analysis of examples of contemporary screenplays, with emphasis on the craft of writing screenplays. Class discussion and sharing of student-written screenplays.Prerequisite: MAC 213 or ENG 320 or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with ENG.
MAC 425.  Inside Hollywood.  (3)
Intensive study of the contemporary entertainment industry centered in Hollywood/Los Angeles, California, through reading, lecture, on-site observations, expert presentations, discussion, research, writing and internships. The main focus is on the film and televsion industry, but music, gaming and other entertainment industries are studied as well . Areas of the industry covered may include development, finance, casting, scriptwriting, production, post-production, marketing and entertainment Law. Program is conducted in Hollywood/Los Angeles, CA. Offered Summer and Winter terms only.Prerequisite: Permission of instructor.
MAC 426.  Inside Washington.  (8)
Intensive study of the contemporary Washington community - government institutions, public officials, journalists, consultants, staff, and interest groups - through reading, lecture, on-site observations, expert presentations, discussion, research, writing, and internships. Program conducted in Washington, DC.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.Cross-listed with JRN/POL 426.
MAC 427.  Inside Washington Semester Experience.  (4)
Intensive study of the contemporary Washington community-government institutions, public officials, journalists, consultants, staff, and interest groups-through reading, lecture, onsite observations, expert presentations, discussion, research, and writing. Program conducted in Washington. Prerequisitess: permission of instructor.Co-requisites: JRN/MAC/POL 454; JRN/MAC/POL 377 or 477; JRN/MAC/POL 340.Cross-listed with JRN/POL.
MAC 443.  Media Economics.  (3)
Study of the interrelationships of economic systems, political systems, and the media industries. Prerequisite major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 445.  Electronic Media Policy and Regulation.  (3) (MPC)
Study of development and implementation of federal and state law and regulations and their effect on American mass media. Emphasis on regulatory process, judicial review, and political process as they affect the Federal Communications Commission and other government agencies.
MAC 446.  Media Globalization.  (3)
Survey of international communication systems, with emphasis on comparative analysis based on current typologies, and economic, social, political, and regulatory variables.Prerequisite: major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 447.  Mass Media Criticism.  (3) (MPC)
Examination of the performance of mass media, especially television, in current social settings. Topics include news and entertainment programming and relationship between media industry and its products.Prerequisite: major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 450.  Topics in Communication.  (3)
Study or research of issues and problems associated with communication under the guidance of a faculty member of the department.Prerequisite: major status or permission of instructor.
MAC 454.  The Washington Community.  (3-4)
This course focuses on the Washington, D.C., as a complex political-social system that is both the seat of American democracy and a metropolis plagued with typical urban problems. In this class, students will complement their study of the formal political and media systems in the "Inside Washington" course by focusing on the development and behavior of constituent communities within the city of Washington.Cross-listed with JRN/POL.
MAC 461.  Gender, Sexuality and Media.  (3) (MPT)
Examines how media help to shape notions of gender in society, how gender ideologies influence mass media perspectives and practices, and how mediated representations may reinforce or challenge social hierarchies based in differences of gender, race, ethnicity, class and sexual orientation. IC.Cross-listed with WGS.
MAC 462.  Red Atlantic: Practicum in U.K. Media, Advertising & Public Relations.  (3)
London-based. Provides an overview of media and advertising practices in the U.K. as a foundation for practicum experience developing an integrated marketing communications campaign for a real client. Recommended prerequisites: MAC 143 and either MAC 211, MAC 258, or STC 259; or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with JRN.
MAC 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MAC 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel