Management (MGT) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Management (MGT)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Management (MGT)
Management (MGT)
MGT 102.  CBL Buck Leadership Lab I: Individual Leadership Development.  (1)
This course is only open to students accepted into the Isaac & Oxley Center for Business Leadership.This lab allows students in the early stages of their CBL experience to explore their own leadership approach through professional, validated leadership assessments (e.g. Strengthsfinder 2.0, Emotional Intelligence), discuss the importance of personal values in ethical leadership, and ultimately develop an understanding of their own authentic leadership.Prerequisite: acceptance into The Issac and Oxley Center for Business Leadership.
MGT 103.  CBL Buck Leadership Lab II: Team Leadership Development.  (1)
This course is limited to those accepted into the Isaac & Oxley Center for Business Leadership.This lab allows students in the early stages of their CBL experience to explore the dynamics of team leadership through hands on simulations, case discussion, and team-based challenges. Students will explore the value they bring to a team context, how to leverage the talents of teammates, and how to build emotionally intelligent work teams.Prerequisite: acceptance into The Issac and Oxley Center for Business Leadership.
MGT 111.  Introduction to Business.  (3) (MPF)
Study of relationships between business and its environment, social responsibilities of business, and business management. Not open to business students. IIC.
MGT 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MGT 211.  Introduction to Management for Non-business Majors.  (3)
An introduction to the practice of management, including the topics of managing culture, ethics, and diversity. The course examines decision making, competition, strategy, managing change, organizational structures, and behavioral topics of leadership, motivation, and team management.
MGT 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MGT 291.  Introduction to Management & Leadership.  (3) (MPT)
Introduction to the importance of investing in human capital. Students are introduced to the theories and practices of how to attract, develop, and retain a competitive workforce. The goal of this course is to help students better understand, predict, and manage themselves and their work relations with others and with organizations, and to understand how organizations utilize this knowledge to design competitive management practices.Prerequisite: sophomore standing.
MGT 302.  Introduction to Operations and Supply Chain Management.  (3) (MPT)
Identification, understanding, analysis, application, and measurement of basic issues encountered in the creation of goods and services for a given firm as well as the strategic and tactical relationships between firms that participate in an effective supply chain. Problems examined through use of cases, lectures, discussions, and computer-based approaches such as simulation, spreadsheets, and problem-solving software.Prerequisite: ISA 205, STA/ISA 125, STA 261, STA 301 or STA 368, proficiency in spreadsheet use, or permission of instructor.
MGT 303.  Human Resource Management.  (3)
Introduction to concepts, issues, and practices of modern human resource management and their impact on organizational effectiveness. Students develop a critical appreciation of the role human resource management plays in the dynamic environment in which organizations operate. Topics covered include human resource planning, recruitment, selection, training and career development, performance appraisal, compensation and benefits, employee and labor relations, and employee rights.
MGT 304.  Cross Cultural Management.  (3)
This course is designed to familiarize students with the major concepts used in managing people in diverse environments, both internationally and domestically. In addition to learning about a variety of cultures, students can become more adept at thinking about issues from multiple perspectives. IC.Prerequisite: MGT 291 or MGT 211.
MGT 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
Available to Farmer School of Business (FSB) majors and minors. Available for 0 credit hour during spring, summer and fall terms. Available for 1 credit hour during summer terms only. For one hour of credit, student must secure a sponsoring FSB faculty member within his/her major or minor to supervise the internship and accompanying required internship reflection paper. MGT 340 is not available during winter term. Students are to work through their respective academic departments to enroll in the course. Credit/no credit only. Note: FSB students may earn a maximum 2 credit hours toward graduation for BLS/BUS/ECO/ESP/FIN/ISA/MGT/MKT 340.Prerequisite: 55 earned hours and permission of department.
MGT 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MGT 402/MGT 502.  Employment Law.  (3) (MPT)
Examines the growing body of law that governs the employment relationship. Students learn the rights and responsibilities of employers and employees by reading and discussing judicial decisions. Aims at improving students' ability to analyze legal questions and to identify the applications of the law for the practice of human resource management. IC.
MGT 404/MGT 504.  Compensation Management.  (3)
Explores design and evaluation of compensation programs that attract, retain, and motivate competent employees. Particular emphasis on job evaluation, performance appraisal, incentive wage systems, supplementary benefits, and international compensation.Prerequisite: MGT 303 or permission of instructor.
MGT 405/MGT 505.  Negotiations and Conflict Management.  (3)
Examines collective bargaining, employee involvement, organizational dispute resolution systems, and other means of ensuring participation and fair treatment in the workplace. Emphasis is given to understanding and practicing techniques for managing workplace conflicts, including mediation, negotiation, and arbitration.Prerequisite: MGT 303 or permission of instructor.
MGT 406.  Talent Acquisition and Development.  (3)
Provides an in-depth exploration of the components of successful talent acquisition and development programs including demand and organizational needs forecasting, internal and external recruitment strategies, selection tools, training program design, and other employee development strategies. Emphasizes creating comprehensive talent aquisition and development programs that align with organizational goals, mission, and strategy.Prerequisites: MGT 291 or MGT 211; and MGT 303.
MGT 414.  Employee Engagement and Motivation.  (3) (MPT)
In-depth examination of concepts, principles, and theories of motivation and their relationship to work behavior and work contexts. Historical and current perspectives are explored, emphasizing integration and application.Prerequisite: MGT 291 or MGT 211.
MGT 415.  Leadership and Learning.  (3) (MPT)
Investigates current leadership thinking and behavior in formal organizations as well as its relationship to power and decision-making in those settings. Emphasis on exploring theory, research, and applications of leadership in order to develop personal guidelines for exercising leadership in organizations. Impact of power and dependence of both leaders and followers is investigated as well as the particular relationship of leadership to decision-making in organizations.Prerequisite: MGT 291 or MGT 211.
MGT 416.  Leading Organizational Change.  (3)
Offers in-depth study of behavioral topics critical for success of contemporary organizations, including organizational theory, organizational design, organizational change and development, organizational culture, job stress, organizational conflict, and group dynamics. Extensive in-depth readings into selected topics and a major project form the basis of the course.Prerequisite: MGT 291 or MGT 211.
MGT 431/MGT 531.  Logistics Management.  (3)
Develops a framework for understanding all the firm's movement-storage activities necessary to provide products to customers where and when they are desired. Transportation, warehousing, inventory, order-processing, and handling activities are investigated in terms of their impact on customer service and total distribution cost.Prerequisite: MGT 302.
MGT 432.  Global Strategic Sourcing.  (3)
Provides an overview of the corporate sourcing function. Emphasis is on outsourcing analysis, sourcing strategies and supplier selection, strategic cost analysis, negotiations and assessments of supplier and sourcing department performance.Prerequisite: MGT 302.
MGT 451/MGT 551.  Operations Planning and Scheduling.  (3)
Problems and solution methodologies associated with planning and scheduling of operations in a production or service environment. Graduate credit not available for Farmer Business School students.Prerequisite: MGT 302 or equivalent or permission of instructor.
MGT 453/MGT 553.  Quality Management Systems.  (3) (MPT)
Study of techniques used to improve productivity of organizational resources. Topics include employee involvement, total quality management, group technology, cellular manufacturing, supplier development, and preventive maintenance.Prerequisite: MGT 302 or equivalent or permission of instructor.
MGT 474.  Human Capital Consulting.  (3)
Students will learn how to measure various aspects of an organization's human capital using a variety of tools enabling them to quantify the effect of human capital on organizational performance.Prerequisites: MGT 291, MGT 303.
MGT 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MGT 490/MGT 590.  Contemporary Issues.  (1-3; maximum 9)
Issues oriented seminar for seniors or graduate students; focuses on a significant contemporary topic in the management field.Prerequisite: senior or graduate standing and permission of instructor.
MGT 495.  Executive Decision Making and Strategy.  (3) (MPC)
Provides opportunity for students, at or near the conclusion of their undergraduate business curriculum, to integrate the concepts learned in the core courses and to bring together various disciplines to bear on the strategic issues facing any organization. Business problems are examined that simultaneously involve several functional areas, employ analysis methodologies from a variety of courses in marketing, organizational behavior, finance, accounting, statistics, law, operations and economics, and involve consequences that effect the entire organization.Prerequisites: FIN 301, MGT 291, 302, MKT 291, senior standing, or permission of instructor.
MGT 498.  Supply Chain Management.  (3)
Provides students with broad understanding of supply chain management. Covers primary activities required to manage supply chains effectively, how members of the supply chain are horizontally integrated, and processes for assessing performance and impact of supply chain management activities. Focuses on relationships between supply chain entities and behavioral issues that influence management of those issues. Students learn integrative tools for analyzing and evaluating alternative courses of action regarding supply chain management activities and functions.Prerequisites: MGT 432 and MGT 431/MGT 531.
MGT 610.  Strategic Human Capital Management.  (1.5)
This course focuses how to align human capital management and organizational strategy. Research indicates that establishing and maintaining this alignment is critical for organizations seeking a sustainable competitive advantage. The course examines how human capital management practices in areas such as talent acquisition, talent development, and compensation relate to key human capital and organizational performance outcomes in a range of settings.Prerequisite: ACC 611.
MGT 627.  Supply Chain and Operations Management.  (3)
' Broad study of production system that is part of all manufacturing and service organizations. Examines, in a variety of organizational settings, the process design, facilities deployment, materials management, quality control problems, and supply chain management.
MGT 644.  Leadership, Change & Cross-Cultural Management.  (3)
Leadership, change, and cross-cultural management are pervasive factors for success in a complex global environment. This course addresses the interface among these three bodies of knowledge and practice because they play critical and related roles in managing a firm's strategic advantages.Prerequisite: MBA standing.
MGT 650.  Leadership, Teams, and Ethical Decision Making.  (1.5)
This course prepares students to become effective organizational leaders. By studying both traditional and contemporary approaches to leadership, students will develop an understanding of key leadership success factors, team leadership, and ethical decision-making. Course readings and hands on experiential exercises will allow students to enhance their self-awareness and refine their leadership skills, and to apply these skills to improve their effectiveness as leaders.
MGT 654.  Strategic Human Resource Management.  (3)
Organizational leaders have responsibility for setting and implementing human resource strategy, which needs to be aligned with organizational strategy. Proper alignment is key to establishing a sustainable competitive advantage. Prerequisite: MBA standing.
MGT 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MGT 681.  Special Studies in Management.  (1-3; maximum 6)
Intensive reading or research in a selected field of advanced management.Prerequisite: graduate standing and permission of instructor.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel