Military Science (MSC) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Military Science (MSC)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Military Science (MSC)
Military Science (MSC)
MSC 121.  Foundations of Officership.  (3)
Introduces students to issues and competencies that are central to a commissioned officer's responsibilities. These initial lessons establish a framework for understanding officership, leadership, and Army values. Additionally, the semester addresses life skills including fitness and time management. (Open enrollment for all students, with no military obligation).Co-requisite: MSC 121L.
MSC 121L.  Leadership Lab.  (1)
The leadership lab examines the challenges of leading tactical teams in the complex contemporary operating environment (COE). This course highlights dimensions of terrain analysis, patrolling, and operation orders. Continued study of the theoretical basis of the Army leadership framework explores the dynamics of adaptive leadership in the context of military operations. Cadets develop greater self awareness as they assess their own leadership styles and practice communication and team building skills. COE case studies give insight into the importance and practice of teamwork and tactics in real-world scenarios. Co-requisite MSC 121.
MSC 122.  Introduction to Tactical Leadership.  (1)
Overviews leadership fundamentals such as setting direction, problem-solving, listening, presenting briefs, providing feedback, and using effective writing skills. You will explore dimensions of leadership values, attributes, skills, and actions in the context of practical, hands-on, and interactive exercises. Open enrollment for all students, with no military obligation.Prerequisites: MSC 121, MSC 121L.Co-requisite: MSC 122L.
MSC 122L.  Leadership Lab.  (1)
An academically challenging course where you will study, practice, and apply the fundamentals of Army leadership, Officership, Army values and ethics, personal development, and small unit tactics at the team and squad level. At the conclusion of this course, you will be capable of planning, coordinating, navigating, motivating and leading a team or squad in the execution of a tactical mission during a classroom PE, a Leadership Lab, or during a Situational Training Exercise (STX) in a field environment. Successful completion of this course will help prepare you for success at the ROTC Leader Development and Assessment Course (LDAC). Open enrollment for all students, with no military obligation.Prerequisites: MSC 121, MSC 121L.Co-requisite: MSC 122.
MSC 221.  Individual Leadership.  (3)
Explores the dimensions of creative and innovative tactical leadership strategies and styles by examining team dynamics and two historical leadership theories that form the basis of the Army leadership framework. Aspects of personal motivation and team building are practiced planning, executing and assessing team exercises. The focus continues to build on developing knowledge of the leadership attributes and core leader competencies through the understanding of Army rank, structure, and duties as well as broadening knowledge of land navigation and squad tactics. Case studies will provide a tangible context for learning the Soldier's Creed and Warrior Ethos as they apply in the contemporary operating environment. (Open enrollment for all students, with no military obligation).Co-requisite: MSC 221L.
MSC 221L.  Leadership Lab.  (1)
Examines the challenges of leading tactical teams in the complex contemporary operating environment (COE). This course highlights dimensions of terrain analysis, patrolling, and operation orders. Continued study of the theoretical basis of the Army leadership framework explores the dynamics of adaptive leadership in the context of military operations. MSC 221L provides a smooth transition into MSC 321. Cadets develop greater self awareness as they assess their own leadership styles and practice communication and team building skills. COE case studies give insight into the importance and practice of teamwork and tactics in real-world scenarios. (Open enrollment for all students with no military obligation)Co-requisite: MSC 221.
MSC 222.  Individual Leadership Part II.  (3)
Second part of a two-semester introduction to organizational leadership. It is designed to help you understand how to build teams, influence others, communicate effectively, make decisions, engage in creative problem solving, and plan and organize. This semester's emphasis is on individual-level leadership. (Open enrollment for all students, with no military obligation).
MSC 222L.  Leadership Lab.  (1)
Emphasizes the functions, duties, and responsibilities of junior Army Officers with special attention focused on to developing advanced leadership potential, and developing personal communications (oral and written) skills, and to active participation in the planning and conduct of training.
MSC 320.  Tactical Problems Seminar.  (1; maximum 2)
Introduction to and discussion of land navigation and tactical route planning.
MSC 321.  Advanced Tactical Leadership Part I.  (3)
This is an academically challenging course where you will study, practice, and apply the fundamentals of Army leadership, Officership, Army values and ethics, personal development, and small unit tactics at the team and squad level. At the conclusion of this course, you will be capable of planning, coordinating, navigating, motivating and leading a team or squad in the execution of a tactical mission during a classroom PE, a Leadership Lab, or during a Situational Training Exercise (STX) in a field environment. Successful completion of this course will help prepare you for success at the ROTC Leader Development and Assessment Course (LDAC).Co-requisite: MSC 321L.
MSC 321L.  Leadership Lab MS 301.  (1)
This lab prepares you for attendance at the Leadership Development and Assessment Course (LDAC) during the summer following completion of NSC 322 and 322L. During the conduct of this lab you will be challenged to practice and hone your leadership technique. You will be evaluated on your leadership skills as you are presented with the demands of LDAC in a series of challenging scenarios related to small unit tactical operations are used to develop self awareness and critical thinking skills. You will receive systematic and specific feedback on your leadership abilities.Co-requisite: MSC 321.
MSC 322.  Advanced Tactical Leadership Part II.  (3)
Part two of the required courses to prepare the student for attendance at the Leadership Development Assessment Course (LDAC). Students will be challenged to study, practice, and evaluate adaptive leadership skills as you are presented with the demands of LDAC. Challenging scenarios related to small unit tactical operations are used to develop self awareness and critical thinking skills. You will receive systematic and specific feedback on your leadership ability.Co-requisite: MSC 322L.
MSC 322L.  Leadership Lab.  (1)
A continuation of MSC 321L that prepares you for attendance at the Leadership Development and Assessment Course (LDAC). The cadet will attend LDAC during the summer following the completion of this lab. During the conduct of this lab you will be challenged to practice and hone your leadership technique. You will be evaluated on your leadership skills as you are presented with the demands of LDAC in a series of challenging scenarios related to small unit tactical operations are used to develop self awareness and critical thinking skills. You will receive systematic and specific feedback on your leadership abilities.Co-requisite: MSC 322.
MSC 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
MSC 421.  Adaptive Leadership.  (3)
A practical application of adaptive leadership. Throughout the semester, students are assigned the duties and responsibilities of an Army staff officer and must apply the fundamentals of principles of training, the training management, the Army writing style and military decision making to weekly training meetings. During these weekly training meetings, the student will plan, execute and assess ROTC training and recruiting events.Co-requisite: MSC 421L.
MSC 421L.  Leadership Lab.  (1)
Prepares the future officer to take charge and perform duties as a small unit leader. Cadets will plan, supervise and execute the training for the underclassmen under the supervision of cadre. Cadets will also apply their experience gained from their attendance at the Leadership Development and Assessment Course and pass that unique knowledge on to underclassmen in order to prepare them for LDAC.Co-requisite: MSC 421.
MSC 422.  Leadership in a Complex World.  (3)
Explores the dynamics of leading in the complex situations of current military operations in the contemporary operating environment (COE). You will examine differences in customs and courtesies, military law, principles of war, and rules of engagement in the face of international terrorism. You also explore aspects of interacting with non-government organizations, civilians on the battlefield, and host nation support. It uses case studies, scenarios, and "What Now, Lieutenant?" exercises to prepare you to face the complex ethical and practical demands of leading as a commissioned officer in the United States Army.Co-requisite: MSC 422L.
MSC 422L.  Leadership Lab.  (1)
Continues to prepare the future officer to take charge and perform duties as a small unit leader. Cadets will plan, supervise and execute the training for the underclassmen under the supervision of cadre. Cadets will also apply their experience gained from their attendance at the Leadership Development and Assessment Course and pass that unique knowledge on to underclassmen in order to prepare them for LDAC.Co-requisite: MSC 422.
MSC 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel