Naval Science (NSC) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Naval Science (NSC)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Naval Science (NSC)
Naval Science (NSC)
NSC 101.  Introduction to Naval Science.  (2)
Introduction to the naval profession and concepts of seapower. Emphasis on mission, organization, and warfare components of the Navy and Marine Corps. Covers naval courtesy and customs, military justice, and leadership. Note: Mandatory for incoming NROTC freshmen (except MECEP & STA-21). NROTC students that have satisfactorily completed at least three years of Naval Science course work in the NJROTC or MCJROTC may request exemption from NSC 101. Normally offered only in the fall semester.
NSC 110.  Naval Science Laboratory.  (1; maximum 2)
Provides orientation to the naval service and NROTC program from the perspective of a member of a structured battalion organization. Includes close order drill and guest speakers with discussion on various Navy-oriented topics. For midshipmen pursuing a commission in the naval service. Mandatory for NROTC students in their freshman year.Prerequisite: admission to the NROTC program.
NSC 125.  Marine Corps Intro to Tactical Leadership.  (1; maximum 2)
Trains and educates first-year students on the basics of small unit leadership. There is no expectation of military or Reserve Officer Training Corps experience. During the conduct of this course you will be trained on officership foundations of military service, to include: Marine Corps history, physical fitness, uniform wear, land navigation, and small unit tactics. You will be evaluated based on academic performance and practical application.Co-requisite: NSC 110.
NSC 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
NSC 202.  Sea Power and Maritime Affairs Seminar.  (3) (MPT)
Investigates history, needs, and characteristics of seapower and its effect on the maritime affairs of our nation and the rest of the world. Fulfills requirements for NSC 1 and NSC 2 thematic sequences. Interested students not affiliated with the NROTC unit should contact the NSC 202 instructor as early as possible. Note: Normally offered only in the spring semester.
NSC 210.  Naval Science Laboratory.  (1; maximum 2)
Provides fundamental training and experience in management and leadership techniques. Provides instruction on close order drill and naval officer career areas and responsibilities. For midshipmen pursuing a commission in the naval service. Mandatory for NROTC students in their sophomore year.Prerequisite: Admission to the NROTC program.
NSC 211.  Leadership and Management.  (3)
Introduction to the principles of leadership andmanagement, with an emphasis on their application by a commissioned officer in the U.S. Navy or Marine Corps. Note: Limited seating for non-NROTC students. Normally offered only in the fall semester.Prerequisite: Sophomore standing or greater.
NSC 225.  Marine Corps Tactical Leadership I.  (1; maximum 2)
Trains and educates second-year students on the basics of small unit leadership. There is no requirement for military or Reserve Officer Training Corps experience, however, familiarization of concepts from NSC 125 is recommended. During the conduct of this course you will learn the basics of the tactical planning process, patrolling operations, and land navigation. You will be evaluated based on academic performance and practical application of concepts from this course and NSC 125.Co-requisite: NSC 210.
NSC 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
NSC 301.  Navigation.  (3) (MPT)
Introduction to the art and science of navigation. Includes lectures and practical work on piloting, dead reckoning, electronic navigation, piloting procedures, associated equipment and publications, and knowledge of environmental factors affecting operations at sea. Note: Normally offered only in the spring semester.
NSC 302.  Naval Operations and Seamanship.  (3) (MPT)
Naval Operations and Seamanship is an advanced naval science course which builds on NSC 301. The course material includes underway watchstanding, ship-handling, naval force composition, operations, and strategy. NSC 302 contains elements from the following Professional Core Competencies: Naval Orientation and Officership, Leadership and Ethics, Sea power and Naval History, Technical Foundations, and Naval Warfare. Note: Normally offered only in the fall semester.
NSC 303.  Naval Ship Systems I.  (3)
Study of theory and operation of steam turbine, gas turbine, diesel, and nuclear propulsion systems in the framework of engineering thermodynamics. Introduction to flotation and stability theory, ship compartmentation, interior communication, and damage control in modern naval ships. Note: Normally offered only in the spring semester.
NSC 310.  Naval Science Laboratory.  (1; maximum 2)
Provides intermediate level management training and leadership experience through practical application of management techniques. For midshipmen pursuing a commission in the naval service. Mandatory for NROTC students in their junior year.Prerequisite: Admission to the NROTC program.
NSC 311.  Evolution of Warfare.  (3) (MPT)
Historical developments of the principles of war, strands of war, and variables of war from 500 B.C. to the present. This is not a dedicated history class however, the use of battlefield and historical studies is integral to understanding how warfare has developed throughout time. Note: Normally offered only in the fall semester of odd numbered years.
NSC 325.  Marine Corps Tactical Leadership II.  (1; maximum 2)
Trains and educates third-year students on the basics of small unit leadership. There is no requirement for military or Reserve Officer Training Corps experience, however, familiarization of concepts from NSC 125 and NSC 225 is highly recommended. During the conduct of this course, you will learn the basics of moral reasoning, fire support planning, operational terms and graphics, and fitness reports. You will be evaluated based on academic performance and practical application of concepts from this course, NSC 125, and NSC 225.Co-requisite: NSC 310.
NSC 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
NSC 402.  Leadership and Ethics.  (3) (MPC)
This course focuses on ethical theory, Naval Law, and morality in warfare in order to provide future naval leaders with a sound moral leadership foundation for “real life” military decision making. Note: This course is normally offered in the spring semester.Prerequisite: Senior standing and prior completion of NSC 211.
NSC 403.  Naval Ship Systems II.  (3)
Investigation and evaluation of principles of weapons, mechanical and electronic systems used in delivery of ordinance, methods of fire control, and missile guidance theory. Note: Normally offered only in the fall semester.
NSC 410.  Naval Science Laboratory.  (1; maximum 2)
Provides upper level management training and leadership experience through practical application of management techniques. For midshipmen pursuing a commission in the naval service. Mandatory for NROTC students in their senior year and beyond.Prerequisite: Admission to the NROTC program.
NSC 411.  Fundamentals of Maneuver Warfare.  (3) (MPT)
Prepares future military officers and other leaders for service by studying modern tactical principles, current military developments, and other aspects of warfare and their interactions with and influences on maneuver warfare doctrine. Specific focus on the United States Marine Corps as the premier maneuver warfighting organization. Study also includes historical influences on tactical, operational, and strategic levels of maneuver warfare practices in the current and future operating environments. Note: Normally offered only in the fall semester of even numbered years.
NSC 425.  Marine Corps Tactical Leadership III.  (1; maximum 2)
Concluding course trains and educates prospective military officers in the high standards of leadership and development required for commissioned service. During the conduct of this course, you will be challenged to practice and hone your leadership technique. You will be evaluated on your leadership skills as you are presented with a series of challenging scenarios related to small unit tactical operations and critical thinking. You will be evaluated based on academic performance and practical application of concepts from NSC 125, NSC 225, and NSC 325.Co-requisite: NSC 410.
NSC 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel