Nursing (NSG) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Nursing (NSG)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Nursing (NSG)
Nursing (NSG)
NSG 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
NSG 251.  Therapeutic Communication in Nursing.  (3)
Examines and develops skills in communication that the nurse uses in working with clients across the lifespan and with other health care professionals. Consideration is given to factors affecting the nurse-client relationship, including self-awareness and cultural awareness. Theory and evidence are examined as foundations for therapeutic communication in nursing practice. (BSN program)Prerequisite: sophomore standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.
NSG 252.  Foundations of Professional Nursing.  (3)
Introduces the student to the role of the nurse as a partner in health promotion with others within the health care system. Nursing is studied in light of its historical roots, educational trends, professional/political power, theory and research, and the profession's role in the changing health care delivery system. Major theories, concepts, trends, and issues that impact the nursing profession today are addressed. Applications of theories regarding socialization into the professional role are emphasized. (BSN program)Prerequisite: sophomore standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.
NSG 261.  Health and Physical Assessment.  (3)
Designed to develop transcultural health assessment skills across the life span. Content and practice focuses on developing cognitive and psychomotor skills associated with obtaining a complete data base through history taking and physical assessments. Students will identify assessment findings that fall outside accepted parameters of normal for pediatric, adult, geriatric and pregnant populations. Lec/Lab. (BSN program).Prerequisites: BIO 171, BIO 172, CHM 131, (MBI 161 or MBI 111/123).
NSG 262.  Fundamentals of Professional Nursing Practice.  (4)
Develops skills in nursing therapeutics and evidence based practice to promote holistic health. Through use of critical thinking skills, students will apply psychomotor skills and nursing therapeutic interventions. Laboratory.Prerequisite: sophomore standing as a baccalaureate nursing student (BSN program).
NSG 263.  Community Health Nursing.  (3)
This course provides theoretical background in community health nursing. The course is based on the synthesis of nursing theory and the public health sciences. Emphasis is on the promotion, preservation, and maintenance of the health of populations. This course focuses on the professional role of the community/public health nurse working with aggregates, vulnerable populations, populations with health problems, community partners, and health officials to promote a healthier community. The student will use skills in community health assessment, program planning as well as interventions to help identified populations attain and maintain their optimum level of health.  This course provides a foundation for designing nursing strategies for individuals, families, and population by integrating health-promotion and disease prevention concepts.
NSG 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
NSG 301.  Theory-Based Nursing Practice.  (3)
This course is the transitional course in the educational trajectory from technical to professional nursing. The educational experiences build upon your knowledge from interdisciplinary prerequisite and technical level nursing courses. Students are introduced to major theories, concepts, trends, and social policy issues that impact the nursing profession today as well as influence its future. Role socialization, application, and integration of theoretical concepts into the professional role are emphasized. The profession's historical roots, education trends, and role evolution, theory and research focus, health and social policy power issues are examined in light of the nation's changing health care delivery system. NSG 301 is specifically designed for the Miami University Advanced Writing requirement, with assignments speaking to various types of writing used by nurses. ADVW. (Open to all nursing and non-nursing majors).Prerequisite: Miami Plan Foundation I English.
NSG 302.  Intermediate Clinical Nursing Practicum.  (3)
This course provides students with a concentrated clinical experience at a local health care facility that will focus on improving their skills to plan, implement, and evaluate the nursing care they provide. Students care for a group of clients over consecutive days and have a nurse mentor thus fostering collegial and interdisciplinary relationships. The faculty member will evaluate the student more in-depth in the application of knowledge, selection of priorities and consistency of care. (Elective for BSN).Prerequisite: NSG 261 and 262.
NSG 311.  Health Promotion Across the Lifespan.  (3)
Helps baccalaureate nursing students shift their focus from illness-oriented care to wellness and health promotion. Students are introduced to content about assessment for wellness and intervention for health promotion throughout the life span. Open to all majors.
NSG 313.  Assessment of the Well Individual.  (2)
Facilitates development of physical assessment skills appropriate to performing a screening physical examination as part of a comprehensive nursing assessment. Content and practice focuses on developing student's ability to obtain a complete data base, identify physical assessment findings that fall outside accepted parameters of normal, and analyze data to formulate nursing diagnoses. (RN-BSN program)
NSG 317.  Teaching Strategies in Health Care.  (3)
Designed to develop knowledge and skill in teaching clients and their families on a one-to-one basis as well as in group situations. Content related to theories of learning, assessment of learning needs, teaching strategies, and evaluation of teaching explored in detail. Emphasizes the role of a nurse as a teacher. Employs experiential teaching strategies. Students learn to teach by experimenting with different teaching strategies, as well as by modeling techniques used by the instructor. (Required for RN-BSN program, elective for BSN) Open to all majors.
NSG 321.  U. S. Health Care System and Culture.  (3)
This course is designed to provide the student with an overview regarding factors that influence health care systems in the United States. A seminar/discussion format will be used to help students examine the culture of health care, various health care delivery systems, as well as roles of providers of care and key stakeholders. Students will also explore select contemporary and legal/ethical issues that arise in the evolving health care system. Open to all majors.Prerequisite: junior standing.
NSG 325.  Problem-Based Approaches in Nursing.  (1)
The course uses problem-based approaches to foster critical thinking skills for the provision of safe, effective nursing care. It incorporates strategies to analyze complex nursing applications.Prerequisites: NSG 251 and NSG 252 or permission of the Instructor.
NSG 331.  Introduction to Nursing Research.  (3)
Provides foundation for systematic study of nursing and health related problems using research process. Emphasis is placed on critiquing published studies, understanding the research process, using evidenced based literature and developing skills in research utilization in the practice setting. (RN-BSN program)
NSG 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
NSG 341.  Caring and Terminal Illness.  (3)
Elective course that explores concepts of professional nursing care in relation to terminal illness. Foci include symptom control, family support, attitudes toward death and dying, and concept of biomedical ethics. (BSN and RN-BSN program)
NSG 343.  Health Care Informatics.  (3)
Designed to give experience with issues and use of health care information management systems. Progresses from history and description of hospital and computer-based systems to clinical bedside practice, research, education, and administrative application. Community and institution-based systems are discussed as well as ergonomics and software/hardware selection.
NSG 349.  Introduction to Principles of Pharmacology in Nursing Practice.  (3)
Introduces the student to the nursing application of basic pharmacology throughout the lifespan. Emphasis is placed on the application of pharmacological knowledge through clinical decision making in nursing practice. (BSN program)Prerequisites: NSG 251, NSG 252, and NSG 261.
NSG 351.  Nursing of Childbearing Family.  (3)
Examines theory and evidence based practice as the basis for planning care for the childbearing family. Emphasis is placed on health promotion integration for families in transition, acknowledging physiological, sociocultural, political and economic forces within the health care system. (BSN program)Prerequisite: junior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.Co-requisite: NSG 352.
NSG 352.  Childbearing Family Clinical.  (2)
Addresses the nursing role as provider of care for childbearing families Theoretical principles and evidence based practice are applied to the planning of and providing care for the childbearing family. Emphasis is placed on health promotion integration for childbearing families (BSN program).Prerequisite: junior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.Co-requisite: NSG 351.
NSG 353.  Nursing Care of Adult Clients with Health Alterations I.  (3)
Examines holistic nursing care of adults. Emphasis is on therapeutic nursing care to promote, maintain, and restore health in adults within the context of the family and community. Focus is on medical-surgical health alterations common to adults.Prerequisite: junior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student (BSN program).Co-requisite: NSG 354.
NSG 354.  Nursing Care of Adult Clients with Health Alterations I-Clinical.  (3)
Addresses providing holistic nursing care to adults and their families in a variety of settings. Students will focus on health promotion, risk reduction, and health restoration activities in examining medical-surgical health alterations common to adults.Prerequisite: junior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student (BSN program).Co-requisite: NSG 353.
NSG 361.  Nursing Care of Adult Clients with Health Alterations II.  (3)
Examines holistic nursing care of adults and their families. Emphasis is on therapeutic nursing care to promote, maintain, and restore health in adults within the context of the family and community. Focuses on medical-surgical health alterations common to adults (BSN program).Prerequisite: junior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.Co-requisite: NSG 362.
NSG 362.  Nursing Care of Adult Clients with Health Alterations II-Clinical.  (3)
Addresses providing holistic nursing care to adults and their families in a variety of settings. Students will focus on health promotion, risk reduction, and health restoration activities in examining medical-surgical health alterations common to adults (BSN program).Prerequisite: junior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.Co-requisite: NSG 361.
NSG 363.  Nursing Care of Children.  (3)
Examines theory and evidence based practice as the basis for planning nursing care for the child within the context of family and community. Emphasis is placed on health promotion, psychological and physiological needs as well as the dynamic interplay of culture, socioeconomic, ethical and legal issues, and spiritual beliefs.Prerequisite: junior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student (BSN program).Co-requisite: NSG 364.
NSG 364.  Nursing Care of Children-Clinical.  (2)
Addresses application of theory and evidence based practice in caring for the child within the context of family and community. Emphasis is placed on health promotion, psychological and physiological needs as well as the dynamic interplay of culture, socioeconomic, ethical and legal issues, and spiritual beliefs. (BSN program)Prerequisite: junior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.
NSG 365.  Nursing Research.  (2-3)
This course introduces the baccalaureate nursing student to the research process and its application in the discipline of nursing. Emphasis will be placed on critiquing published studies, understanding the research process, and developing skills to apply research findings in the practice setting.
NSG 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
NSG 402.  The Professional Nurse Leader.  (3)
Synthesizes roles and responsibilities of the baccalaureate nurse by establishing a theoretical foundation for developing leadership skills applicable in all areas of the health care system. (BSN and RN-BSN programs)
NSG 418.  Perspectives of Chronic Disease.  (3)
Examines complex health problems that affect individuals and families across the lifespan. Students analyze the multiple factors contributing to major chronic health problems of contemporary American society. Emphasis is given to the way in which individuals as members of families and other social groups adapt to the trajectory of the disease process. The course also examines the role of the nurse as a member of the interdisciplinary team that provides services for disease prevention, health restoration, and rehabilitation. Open to all majors.
NSG 420.  Focused Practicum in Baccalaureate and Expanded Nursing Roles.  (2)
In this clinical course, students will design their own practicum experience in which they will work with a preceptor in a role appropriate to the Bachelors or Masters prepared nurse. Students will negotiate with faculty and preceptors to develop experiences and activities that will meet their own learning needs. Roles selected could include, but not be limited to leadership, research, health promotion, cultural diversity exploration, specialized inpatient or outpatient care, advanced practice nursing, or community activism.Prerequisites: NSG 301, 311, 313 and 331.
NSG 430.  Community Health Nursing.  (4)
This course a provides a theoretical background and a practicum experience in community health nursing. The course is based on the synthesis of evidence-based practice, nursing theory, and on the physical, behavioral and public health sciences. Emphasis is on the promotion and maintenance of the health of populations. The course assists students to recognize and analyze the interrelationship among individuals, families, population groups and the community in determining the health status of each with a special focus on vulnerable populations. The practicum allows students to apply theory to practice. Open only to RN-BSN students. IC.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: MBI 361.
NSG 432.  Population Focused Nursing Care- Clinical.  (2)
The purpose of the clinical experience is for students to apply theory, engage in the principles of population-focused care, and demonstrate skills as an emerging leader in the nursing profession. For this clinical, students will examine public health issues relevant to a specified vulnerable or disenfranchised population. Students will use data, information technology, and input from community members to assess the health needs of populations. Based on assessment data, students will collaborate with community and organizational leaders to design, implement, and evaluate evidence-based nursing interventions.
NSG 435.  Challenges in Health Care Delivery.  (3) (MPC)
Provides opportunity to synthesize and apply accumulated knowledge to a specific topic or project related to health care delivery. Students with varying academic and experiential backgrounds work in small groups to research and analyze a topic or situation from various perspectives. Each group develops one of the following: a position paper, a manuscript ready for submission for publication, or a plan for action relative to a specific situation or problem. Open to all majors.Prerequisite: senior standing.
NSG 441.  Health and Aging: Current Perspectives and Issues.  (3)
This elective course examines issues of health status and health care delivery for the older population. Topics include perceptions of health, major health problems in later life, strategies for working with older persons experiencing functional and sensory changes of aging, patterns of health-services utilization, projected health needs, and ethical issues related to health care for the elderly. (BSN and RN-BSN programs)
NSG 451.  Nursing Care of Clients Experiencing Mental Health Disorders and Their Families.  (3)
Examines theory and evidence based practice in the nursing care of clients experiencing mental health disorders and their families. Emphasizes application of the nursing process and therapeutic communication skills in the promotion of mental health. Concepts of group dynamics and family systems are addressed. (BSN program)Prerequisite: junior or senior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.Co-requisite: NSG 452.
NSG 452.  Nursing Care of Clients Experiencing Mental Health Disorders and Their Families-Clinical.  (3)
Addresses providing care to clients experiencing mental health disorders and their families in a variety of settings. Emphasis is on application of the nursing process and therapeutic communication skills. Promotion of mental health, concepts of group dynamics and family systems are addressed. (BSN program)Prerequisite: junior or senior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.Co-requisite: NSG 451.
NSG 461.  Nursing Care of Older Adults.  (3)
Examines holistic nursing care of the aging client. Health and wellness needs of the older adult and the impact of aging on the individual, family, and community are evaluated. Focus is on promoting functional ability and quality of life of the older adult. (BSN program)Prerequisite: junior or senior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.
NSG 463.  Nursing Care of Clients Experiencing Multi-System Health Alterations.  (3)
Examines multi-system health alterations that affect individuals and families across the life span. Students will synthesize prior learning as they analyze the multiple factors contributing to major health alterations. Emphasizes the way in which individuals as members of families and other social groups adapt to the trajectory of the disease process and complex health alterations. The student is guided to examine the role of the nurse as a member of the interdisciplinary team that provides services for disease prevention, health restoration and rehabilitation. (BSN program)Prerequisite: second semester senior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.Co-requisite: NSG 464.
NSG 464.  Nursing Care of Clients Experiencing Multi-System Health Alterations-Clinical.  (5)
Addresses providing care to groups of clients with multi-system health alterations and their families. Focuses on refining clinical decision making skills, implementing evidence-based interventions, and measuring client outcomes in evaluating the therapeutic effectiveness of care provided. Facilitates the transition from student to graduate nurse through preceptored experiences and faculty guidance. (BSN program)Prerequisite: second semester senior standing as a baccalaureate nursing student.Co-requisite: NSG 463.
NSG 465.  Nursing Senior Seminar.  (1-2)
Seminar course designed to assist the graduating senior nursing student to transition from student role to registered nurse (RN) role. The course utilizes a nationally normed standardized testing product in preparation for the RN licensure examination. This course focuses on assisting the student to evaluate his/her results and develop individualized remediation plans to foster success on the licensure examination. The course incorporates a comprehensive review.Prerequisite: last semester of senior BSN program.
NSG 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel