Organizational Leadership (ORG) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Organizational Leadership (ORG)
Organizational Leadership (ORG)
ORG 354.  The Social Dynamics of Strategy and Leadership.  (3)
Reviews classical and current sociological theories of organizational strategy and leadership, with an emphasis on practical application. The course focuses on four major areas: (a) relative firm performance; (b) the nature of competition and market interaction; (c) the beginnings of industries and firms; and (d) the diffusion or transfer of ideas and practices across firms.Prerequisite: SOC 153.
ORG 360.  Current Issues in Organizational Leadership.  (3; maximum 6)
Covers special topics of importance to leaders in a variety of organizational types.
ORG 361.  Innovation in Organizations.  (3)
Organizations play an important role in introducing novelty and innovation in society. Through readings, case studies, and experiential activities, this course examines how organizations can effectively foster innovation, and the processes that lead to new products, services, and solutions to social problems. In addition, the course focuses on the importance of organizational adaptation and innovation in an increasingly dynamic global economy, and the ways the most effective organizations adapt and innovate. CAS-W.Prerequisite: SOC 153 or PSY 111.
ORG 471.  Organizational Leadership Capstone.  (3) (MPC)
Integrates concepts from the Organizational Leadership major and applies them to real world issues.Prerequisite: Senior standing.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel