Pre-Law Studies (PLW) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Pre-​Law Studies (PLW)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Pre-Law Studies (PLW)
Pre-Law Studies (PLW)
PLW 101.  Exploring Careers in Law I.  (1)
Explores the various areas of legal practice through guest legal practitioners and helps students considering a career in the legal profession develop an appreciation for the diversity of the legal field, the various career options available upon graduation from law school, what is required to prepare for admission to law school, and the core competencies required for law school success.
PLW 201.  Exploring Careers in Law II.  (1)
This one hour per week course will expose students to the skills and experiences used by lawyers in practice. Exploration of these skills will embrace a variety of disciplines and use a combination of case studies and guest speakers to both discuss and engage with these skills. Topics include: issue spotting, persuasion, advocacy, strategy, human behavior, mediation/ADR, negotiation and ethics.
PLW 230.  Mock Trial.  (2; maximum 6)
Practical experience in intercollegiate mock trial competition; requires travel to intercollegiate mock trial tournaments.Prerequisite: only members of mock trial team may enroll.
PLW 401.  Preparing for a Career in Law.  (1)
Prepares students to navigate the law school admissions process. Students reflect on their motivation for becoming a lawyer through preparing resumes and personal statements for their applications, and learn how to research law schools, prepare a law school list, and complete on-line applications.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel