Premedical Studies (PMD) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Premedical Studies (PMD)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Premedical Studies (PMD)
Premedical Studies (PMD)
PMD 101.  Explorations in Healthcare Careers.  (1)
Explores the various career pathways in healthcare and helps students considering a career in a healthcare field develop a comprehensive plan of preparation for admission to medical school or other healthcare profession school. This professional development course is for all students considering a career in healthcare. Credit/no-credit only.
PMD 210.  Premedical Scholars Seminar: Discussions in healthcare.  (1; maximum 4)
This seminar offers students in the Premedical Scholars program the opportunity to identify, present, and discuss issues that will face future healthcare practitioners. May be taken multiple times. Credit/no-credit only. Open only to students in the Premedical Scholars Program.
PMD 301.  Navigating Healthcare Professional School Admissions.  (1)
Prepares students to navigate the healthcare professional school admissions process. Students reflect on their motivation for becoming a healthcare provider and develop personal statements and descriptions of activities for their applications. The final product will be completion of a mock application to a healthcare professional school and mock interview. This professional development course will be of interest to students applying to medical or other health profession school. Credit/no-credit only.
PMD 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel