Psychology (PSY) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Psychology (PSY)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Psychology (PSY)
Psychology (PSY)
PSY 111.  Introduction to Psychology.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to content, methods, issues, and theories of psychology. Credit not granted to students who have earned credit in EDP 101. IIC. CAS-C.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: PSY 112.
PSY 112.  Foundational Experiences in Psychology.  (1)
Introduction to fundamental early experiences in psychological research and practice. Students will become familiar with important features of psychological research and how core skills of psychological science relate to academic and non-academic careers.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: PSY 111.
PSY 112M.  Foundational Experiences for Majors.  (1)
Introduction to fundamental early experiences in psychological research and practice. Students will become familiar with important features of psychological research and how core skills of psychological science relate to academic and non-academic careers.Prerequisite: PSY 111.
PSY 159.  Seminar in Neuroscience.  (1)
Provides an introduction to the field of neuroscience and includes discussions of experimental techniques and methodology and career opportunities in neuroscience, the interdisciplinary nature of the field, and the scientific method and the development and testing of hypotheses; will expose students to the synthesis of scientific literature in the field of neuroscience and to ways to effectively communicate this information to a broad audience.Cross-listed with BIO 159.
PSY 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
PSY 200.  Selected Topics of Psychological Inquiry.  (1-3; maximum 4)
Selected topics emphasizing application of psychological principles and methods to contemporary issues. Information on topics to be offered each term is available in department office.
PSY 210.  Psychology Across Cultures.  (3) (MPF)
A topics course, focused on the examination of culture and cultural perspectives, within the United States and globally, as frameworks through which theories and findings of the field of psychology may be critically evaluated. IC, IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.Prerequisite: PSY 111.Cross-listed with AAA 210.
PSY 211.  Psychological Perspectives on Leadership and Pedagogy in the College Classroom.  (2) (MPT)
Prepares students to serve as discussion leaders in PSY 111. Students will learn about good pedagogical practices; resources offered by the university to support student learning; and intellectual development in college students.Prerequisites: PSY 111 and permission of instructor.
PSY 212.  Practicum in Leadership and Pedagogy.  (3) (MPT)
Students will lead a 50-minute discussion section connected to PSY 111. Course participants will be provided ongoing supervision to facilitate their development as discussion leaders and leaders in the undergraduate community in supporting student learning; and intellectual development.Prerequisites: PSY 111 and PSY 211.
PSY 221.  Social Psychology.  (3)
Theories and research findings of social psychology including social cognition, intergroup relations, social perception and judgment, social relationships, social influence and persuasion, and group processes.Prerequisite: PSY 111.
PSY 231.  Developmental Psychology.  (3) (MPT)
Psychological development over the lifespan; research and theory in physical, perceptual, cognitive, language, and socio-emotional development.Prerequisite: PSY 111 or EDP 101.
PSY 241.  Personality.  (3)
Bases and acquisition of personality, emphasizing principles, theories, and research.Prerequisite: PSY 111.
PSY 242.  Abnormal Psychology.  (3) (MPT)
In-depth survey of symptoms, causes, diagnosis, and treatment of major psychological disorders including functional and organic psychoses, neuroses, personality disorders, psychophysiological disorders, affective disorders and suicide, alcoholism and other drug use disorders, psychosexual deviations, mental retardation, and abnormal behaviors associated with childhood, adolescence, family, and old age.Prerequisite: PSY 111.
PSY 251.  Introduction to Biopsychology.  (3)
Introduction to basic research and theory in physiological psychology: brain mechanisms and consciousness, memory, thought, emotion, and stress. Basic neurophysiology and neuroanatomy, as well as nervous system-endocrine system integration are included.
PSY 271.  Survey of Perception, Action, and Cognition.  (3) (MPT)
Introductory survey of topics in vision, audition, haptics, attention, memory, reasoning, written and spoken discourse, concepts, reasoning, decisions, and motor control.
PSY 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
PSY 293.  Introduction to Psychological Statistics.  (4)
Provides an introduction to analyzing, interpreting, and reporting results in psychological research. It prepares students to analyze data. Topics include descriptive and inferential statistics. CAS-C. CAS-Q.Prerequisite: STA 261.
PSY 294.  Writing and Research Methods in Psychology.  (4)
Extends the foundation for research skill developed in PSY293, with an emphasis on the experimental method and other methodologies (survey, observation, etc.), as well as on scientific writing according to disciplinary conventions (APA style). The completion of this two-course sequence will prepare students for independent research and thorough understanding of upper-level course content. ADVW. CAS-C, CAS-Q, CAS-W.Prerequisite: PSY 293.
PSY 313.  Advancing in Leadership and Pedagogy.  (1-3) (MPT)
Students who have already led a discussion group as part of PSY 111 will have the opportunity to lead another discussion group and pursue a project of their own choosing that addresses a problem in which they have developed a significant interest as a result of previous work as a discussion leader.Prerequisites: PSY 111, PSY 211, PSY 212 and permission of instructor.
PSY 320.  Advanced Topics In Psychology.  (1-4; maximum 8)
Advanced consideration of selected topics, emphasizing the application of psychological theories, principles, research and methods to focused phenomena, including contemporary issues.Prerequisite: PSY 294.
PSY 324.  Advanced Social Psychology.  (3)
Advanced topics in contemporary social psychology.Prerequisites: PSY 221 and PSY 294 or permission of instructor.
PSY 325.  Psychology of Prejudice and Minority Experience.  (3)
Consideration of psychological factors underlying prejudice toward racial, ethnic, and other minorities. Impact of prejudice and discrimination on members of minority groups. IC.Prerequisite: PSY 221 and PSY 294.
PSY 326.  Psychology of Gender.  (3)
Review and integration of emerging theory and research about women and their behavior, with particular attention to uniquely female experiences throughout the life cycle and to the influences that affect women in contemporary society.Prerequisites: PSY 221 and PSY 294.Cross-listed with WGS.
PSY 327.  Intro to Social Cognition.  (3)
Consideration of cognitive factors underlying social interaction and thought. Discussions of how we encode, interpret, process, recall and respond to social stimuli.Prerequisites: PSY 221 and PSY 294.
PSY 331.  Infant Development.  (3)
A survey of research and theory on physical, cognitive and social development in infancy.Prerequisite: PSY 231 and PSY 294.
PSY 332.  Child Development.  (3) (MPT)
A survey of research and theory on physical, cognitive and social development in infancy and childhood.Prerequisites: PSY 231 and PSY 294.
PSY 333.  Adolescent Development.  (3) (MPT)
Survey of research and theory on physical, cognitive, and social development in adolescence.Prerequisites: PSY 231 and PSY 294.
PSY 334.  Adulthood and Aging.  (3) (MPT)
Psycho-social functioning across adulthood with a focus on middle and old age. Changes in and determinants of body structures and functions, motor skills, intelligence and cognition, personality, and social behavior.Prerequisites: PSY 231 and PSY 294.
PSY 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
PSY 343.  Psychopathology.  (3) (MPT)
Physical, developmental, and social sources, symptoms, treatment, and prevention of abnormal behavior; emphasis on current research and theory.Prerequisite: PSY 242.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: PSY 294.
PSY 345.  Childhood Psychopathology and Developmental Disabilities.  (3) (MPT)
Study of children considered biologically, psychologically, and/or socio-culturally deviant. Psychological theory and practice are emphasized. Recommended: PSY 231.Prerequisite or Co-requisite: PSY 294.
PSY 350.  Advanced Topics in Personality Theory and Research.  (3)
Topics in personality theory and research at an advanced undergraduate level.Prerequisites: PSY 241 and PSY 294.
PSY 351.  Advanced Biopsychology.  (4)
Current theories and research in motivation, emotion, learning and memory, and/or sensation and perception. Laboratory includes anatomical dissections of sheep brains and experimentation in biopsychology, including behavioral research with rodents and analysis of prepared tissue samples.3 Lec. 1 Lab.Prerequisite: BIO 305 or (PSY 251 and PSY 294) or permission of instructor.
PSY 352.  Structured Research Experience in Behavioral Neuroscience.  (3)
This course is part of a year-long focused research experience for junior- and senior-level undergraduates. This course teaches students to engage with, interpret, and present findings from behavioral neuroscience experiments. Students will learn to interpret empirical literature related to a focused problem in behavioral neuroscience, develop a testable hypothesis based on that literature, design an ethical study to test the hypothesis, and learn the skills necessary to conduct the proposed research.
PSY 356.  Psychopharmacology.  (3)
Survey of the major classes of psychoactive drugs. In addition to behavioral and psychological effects, emphasis is placed on sites and mechanisms of drug action.Prerequisite: PSY 251 or BIO 305 or permission of instructor.
PSY 372.  Learning & Cognition.  (3) (MPT)
Explores key concepts and empirical findings from the study of human learning, memory, cognition, and knowledge representation and their ramifications for developing expertise and designing learning environments and experiences.Prerequisite: PSY 294, PSY 271.
PSY 374.  Psychology of Language and Thought.  (3) (MPT)
Provides an acquaintance with research and theory in thinking, communication, psycholinguistics, and relation of language to thought processes.Prerequisite: PSY 271 and PSY 294.
PSY 375.  Laboratory in Perception, Action, and Cognition.  (4)
Students will conduct research projects inspired by current theories in perception, action, and/or cognition. This course will allow students to learn advanced laboratory techniques and methodologies, and further develop communication skills through oral and written presentations of their research.3 Lec. 1 Lab.Prerequisite: PSY 294.
PSY 376.  Psychology of Judgment, Decision Making, and Reasoning.  (3)
An exploration of the psychology of human judgment and decision making (JDM) and reasoning: what it means to interpret, evaluate, make inferences about and otherwise judge aspects of our world to make decisions and solve problems from the momentous to the mundane. Students participating in this seminar will develop a deep appreciation of central questions that have driven the field (e.g., the nature of rationality); the theories and methods used to tackle these questions; and the role of internal and external influences on how we make decisions and act upon them to achieve our goals.
PSY 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
PSY 394.  Editorial and Publishing Processes in Psychology.  (2)
Introduces students to the editorial and publication processes in psychology. Students will gain skills such as manuscript preparation, peer review, drafting professional cover letters, responding to reviewer criticism, and making editorial decisions. The course is intended to prepare students for membership on the board of the department's undergraduate research journal.Prerequisites: PSY 293 and PSY 294.
PSY 400.  Senior Honors in Psychology.  (3)
Focus on developing scientific writing and methodological skills for students pursuing an honors thesis within psychology.Prerequisite: permission of instructor required.
PSY 410.  Capstone Seminar in Psychology: The Multiple Determinants of Behavior.  (3) (MPC)
Promotes the integration of the student's knowledge of psychology to a particular topic within psychology.Prerequisite: PSY 294.
PSY 420.  Seminar in Social Psychology.  (3; maximum 6)
Intensive study of a major topic in the general area of social psychology. Topic may be from among the following areas: socialization, social cognition, person perception, attributions, attitudes and stereotyping, small group, intergroup and organizational process, prejudice and victimization.Prerequisite: PSY 221 and PSY 294.
PSY 430.  Seminar in Developmental Psychology.  (3; maximum 6)
Current research and theory on topics in developmental psychology.Prerequisites: PSY 231 and PSY 294.
PSY 433/PSY 533.  Advanced Developmental Psychology.  (3)
This course is an advanced examination of contemporary life span issues in human development.Prerequisite: graduate level for graduate students and completion of PSY 293 and PSY 294 and one of the 400-level developmental courses.
PSY 440/PSY 540.  Special Topics in Psychopathology.  (3; maximum 9)
This course will offer students the opportunity to examine advanced topics in the study of child or adult psychopathology. Students will investigate in depth current research on the origins, developmental course, and outcomes associated with specific mental health problems in children or adults.Prerequisites: PSY 242 and PSY 294.
PSY 451/PSY 551.  Cognitive Neuroscience.  (3)
Presents the modern science of understanding mechanisms of the mind in which cognitive theory is integrated with neuropsychological and neuroscientific evidence. Topics include the cognitive and biological bases of perception, attention, memory, language, hemispheric specialization, executive function, imagery, and consciousness. Techniques of cognitive science such as brain imaging (MRI, PET, ERP), the study of patient populations, and computational analyses will be integrated with content of the course.Prerequisites: BIO 305 or PSY 294 and one of the following: PSY 251, PSY 271.
PSY 456/PSY 556.  Advanced Biological Bases of Behavior.  (3)
In depth discussion of the structure and function of the vertebrate nervous system, ranging from the cellular basis of neuronal activities to the physiological bases of motor control, sensory systems, motivated behaviors, higher mental processes, and disorders. This course is intended for graduate students and advanced neuroscience-focused undergraduates, with interests ranging from animal behavior to clinical disorders.Prerequisites: (PSY 294 and (PSY 351 or PSY 356 or PSY 352 or PSY 451/PSY 551) and senior standing) or (BIO 305 and PSY 251 and senior standing) or permission of the instructor.
PSY 458.  Capstone Seminar in Neuroscience.  (3) (MPC)
Intensive study of a major topic in the field of Neuroscience, with the aim of the integration of the student's knowledge of Neuroscience to a particular topic within Neuroscience.Prerequisites: PSY 251 and one of the following: PSY 294 OR BIO 305 OR (BOTH BIO 161 AND BIO 203).
PSY 470.  Seminar in Cognition.  (3) (MPT)
Intensive study of a major topic within the general area of human cognition. Topic may be drawn from the areas of perception, memory, decision making, psycholinguistics, intelligence, or learning.Prerequisites: PSY 271 and PSY 294.
PSY 473/PSY 573.  Human Factors/Ergonomics.  (4)
Introduction to the field of human factors. Application of principles of experimental psychology toward the goal of optimizing relations between the individual and technological products and environments.Prerequisite: PSY 271 and PSY 294.
PSY 474/PSY 574.  Advanced Cognitive Processes.  (3)
Advanced introduction to central concepts in cognitive psychology. Primary topics include perception, attention, memory, categorization, skill acquisition and expertise, automaticity, decision making, visual imagery, and language. The neuroanatomical and neurophysiological implementation of basic cognitive processes will also be addressed.Prerequisites: PSY 271 and PSY 294 or instructor approval.
PSY 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
PSY 480.  Independent Reading for Department Honors.  (1-6; maximum 6)
Prerequisite: PSY 294, senior standing and permission of instructor.
PSY 485/PSY 585.  History and Systems of Psychology.  (3)
History of psychology from its early philosophical forbearers, through its development within various sciences, to a stage of quasi-maturity in the systems of late 19th and 20th centuries.
PSY 490.  Capstone Experience in Psychology: Research Apprenticeship in Psychology.  (1-3; maximum 6) (MPC)
Allows students to integrate their work in psychology by participating in a specific faculty-directed research project. Minimum of three semester hours must be earned to meet the Capstone requirement.Prerequisite: PSY 294 and permission of instructor.
PSY 601.  Statistics and Methods I.  (3)
Introduction to methodological issues and data analyses for applications in psychology. Topics include philosophy of science, the role of statistics, probability, sampling distributions and estimation, hypothesis testing, ways of collecting categorical data, shortcomings of and alternatives to hypothesis testing, Bayesian inference, correlation and causation, effect size and power, threats to internal validity, alternatives to quantitative analysis, ethical issues in research methodology, and computational methods of analysis. This is the first course in a two course sequence to be followed by PSY 602.Prerequisite: graduate standing in Psychology or permission of instructor.
PSY 602.  Statistics and Methods II.  (3)
A second course in the introduction to methodological design and analysis for applications in psychology. Topics include statistical assumptions and methodological consequences, one-way ANOVA, contrasts and trend analysis, factorial ANOVA, repeated measures designs, linear regression, causal modeling, ethics and alternatives to quantitative analysis. This is the second course in a two course sequence following PSY 601.Prerequisite: graduate standing in Psychology and PSY 601, or permission of instructor.
PSY 603.  Proseminar in Psychology I.  (1)
Overview of contemporary psychology.
PSY 604.  Proseminar in Psychology II.  (1)
Overview of contemporary psychology.
PSY 605.  Multicultural Topics  in Clinical Psychology.  (3)
Provides an exploration of issues related to culture and diversity in clinical research, theory, and practice with the aim of facilitating students' cultural competence.Prerequisites: Enrollment in a graduate program in the Department of Psychology and permission of instructor.
PSY 620.  Seminar in Experimental Psychology.  (1-3; maximum 9)
Current research and theory in topics from experimental psychology.
PSY 630.  Seminar in Social Psychology.  (3; maximum 12)
Current research and theory in topics from social psychology.
PSY 640.  Internship.  (0-12; maximum 6)
PSY 6450.  Clinical Supervision I.  (1)
First course of a two course sequence designed to introduce doctoral students to clinical supervision. Course covers topics such as supervision theory, models, and implementation.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
PSY 6451.  Clinical Supervision II.  (1)
Second course of a two course sequence designed to introduce doctoral students to clinical supervision. Course covers topics such as advanced supervision theory, models, and implementation.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
PSY 645L.  Consultation.  (1)
Module offered in five-week sprint mode, designed to introduce doctoral students to clinical, school, and community consultation. Course covers topics such as consultation theory, models, and implementation.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
PSY 646.  Psychological Assessment I.  (3)
First course of a two course sequence designed to introduce doctoral students to psychological assessment. Course covers topics such as principles of psychological measurement, assessment issues with multi-cultural populations and the ethics of assessment. Contemporary theories of intelligence and use of the Wechsler Scales are also taught.Prerequisite: admission to clinical psychology program.
PSY 647.  Psychological Assessment II.  (3)
Second course of a two course sequence designed to introduce doctoral students to psychological assessment. Course covers topics such the diagnosis/assessment interface and specific assessment techniques such as interviewing, behavioral observations and measures such as personality, adaptive behavior and academic achievement are taught.Prerequisite: admission to clinical psychology program and PSY 646.
PSY 648.  Developmental Psychopathology across the Lifespan.  (3)
Overview of etiology, phenomenonology, course, diagnosis and correlates of psychopathology, with an emphasis on processes across the lifespan.Prerequisite: either admission to the clinical program or approval by the clinical faculty and permission of the instructor.
PSY 649.  Ethics in Clinical Psychology.  (3)
Introduction to ethical theory and standards for the profession. Introduction to law and psychology. Issues in clinical and professional development.Prerequisite: completion of PSY 648 or approval of the clinical faculty and permission of the instructor.
PSY 650.  Independent Reading.  (1-5; maximum 20)
Supervised, in-depth study of circumscribed area of psychology.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
PSY 653.  Adult Evidence-Based Clinical Intervention.  (3)
This course is intended to prepare students to utilize evidence-based principles in the practice of clinical psychology. This class blends theoretical and empirical readings with the practice of psychology.Prerequisite: admission in the psychology department graduate program in clinical psychology or permission of the instructor.
PSY 654.  Affective Development.  (3)
Provides foundational and contemporary perspectives on the science of emotion and the science of lifespan development. For each of these separate literatures, a focus on evolutionary, biological, cognitive, social and cultural influence on both emotion and development will be incorporated. The course then provides an integrated perspective on understanding emotion from a developmental perspective.Prerequisites: Graduate standing in Department of Psychology or permission of the instructor.
PSY 660.  Child/Adolescent Evidence-Based Clinical Intervention.  (3)
This course will cover both theory and technical skills to prepare students to implement evidence-based approaches with children/adolescents/families for common clinical problems (e.g., emotion regulation, conduct problems) and diagnoses (e.g., ADHD, anxiety, depression, autism) with a focus on cognitive-behavioral theory and developmental psychopathology framework.
PSY 670.  Graduate Clinical Psych Traineeship.  (1-4; maximum 12)
Supervised experience in psychological interventions in public and private agencies or settings. Includes both seminar meetings and on-site conferences.Prerequisite: admission to clinical program, approval by clinical faculty, and permission of instructor.
PSY 670A.  Initial Clinical Psychology Traineeship.  (1-4; maximum 12)
Supervised experience in psychological interventions in public and private agencies or settings. Includes both seminar meetings and on-site conferences. Prerequisite: admission to clinical program, approval by clinical faculty, and permission of instructor.
PSY 670B.  Advanced Clinical Psych Traineeship.  (1-4; maximum 12)
Supervised experience in psychological interventions in public and private agencies or settings.Prerequisite: admission to clinical program, approval by clinical faculty, and permission of instructor.
PSY 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
PSY 680.  Advanced Topics in Research Methods and Analysis for the Behavioral Scientist.  (1-6; maximum 9)
Current topics in statistical analysis and research methods in contemporary psychological research. Topics may include statistical modeling procedures, meta-analysis, program evaluation, non-parametric analysis, Bayesian analysis, mathematical modeling, and other advanced issues in quantitative research design and analysis.
PSY 685.  Practicum in the Teaching of Psychology.  (3)
Supervised experience in preparation and presentation of lectures, demonstrations, and evaluation in undergraduate psychology courses. Credit/no-credit only.
PSY 694.  Advanced Regression Analysis for Psychological Research.  (3)
Covers mediation, moderation, and multilevel modeling within the multiple regression framework with a focus on the relevance to applications within psychology.
PSY 696.  Structural Equation Modeling for the Behavioral Scientist.  (3)
An introduction to a set of multivariate techniques collectively known as structural equation modeling. Topics include review of correlation and multiple regression, as well as an introduction to path analysis, factor analysis, structural causal modeling, growth modeling, and person-centered statistical approaches.
PSY 697.  Theory and Practice of Narrative Research.  (4)
Provides an introduction to the application of social constructionist epistemology and narrative methodologies in psychological research. Also provides an overview of conceptual frameworks and an opportunity for students to apply knowledge.Prerequisites: Graduate status and at least one previous graduate-level course in social science methodology.
PSY 700.  Research for Master's Thesis.  (1-12; maximum 12)
PSY 710.  Independent Research in Psychology.  (1-16; maximum 30)
Design and execution of an independent research project with faculty supervision.
PSY 720.  Advanced Seminar in Experimental Psychology.  (1-4; maximum 18)
Consideration of a specialized topic in depth from current research literature in experimental psychology.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
PSY 730.  Advanced Seminar in Social Psychology.  (3-4; maximum 18)
Consideration of a specialized topic in depth from current research literature in social psychology.
PSY 740.  Advanced Seminar in Clinical Psychology.  (1-4; maximum 18)
Consideration of specialized topics in clinical psychology.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
PSY 750.  Advanced Clinical Techniques.  (1-4; maximum 24)
Provides integration of theory and research in techniques of psychological intervention, with practicum experience in the application of these techniques.Prerequisite: admission to clinical program, approval by clinical faculty, and permission of instructor.
PSY 755.  Continuing Clinical Supervision.  (1-3; maximum 3)
Provides ongoing supervision of cases in the Psychology Clinic after the end of PSY 750.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
PSY 780.  Seminar in Brain, Cognitive, and Developmental Science.  (1; maximum 10)
Introduces students to Brain and Developmental Science (BCD) graduate program to a broad spectrum of theories, research, and practical application of BCD science. Students will enhance their knowledge of BCD science by their participation in discussion of BCD faculty and student research. In addition, students will engage in discussing their dissertation research, practicing job talks, and acquiring tools to prepare them for non-academic professions.Prerequisite: graduate student standing.
PSY 840.  Internship in Psychology.  (1-6; maximum 12)
Year-long internship in clinical or research setting. Required of clinical students, optional for others.Prerequisite: permission of director of clinical training program or departmental chair.
PSY 850.  Research for Doctoral Dissertation.  (1-16; maximum 60)
Prerequisite: admission to candidacy for doctoral degree.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel