Social Justice Studies (SJS) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Social Justice Studies (SJS)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Social Justice Studies (SJS)
Social Justice Studies (SJS)
Note: all SJS courses will fulfill CAS-C-SOC/GTY.
SJS 101.  Elements of Social Justice.  (1)
The Elements of Social Justice is a one credit hour course which aims to raise students' awareness of social injustice, encourage them to view various situations through a social justice lens, and suggests how various ethical frames can be used to advocate for a socially just world.
SJS 159.  Creating Global Peace.  (3) (MPF)
Focuses on the study of peace, as represented across disciplinary boundaries and at local-to-global scales of analyses. Combines guest lectures, scholarly readings and other media, reflective writing and discussion, and a service-learning commitment that together explore different ways of thinking about peace, and 'peace' practices at global to local scales. IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.Cross-listed with GEO.
SJS 165.  Introduction to Social Justice Studies.  (3) (MPF)
The Introduction to Social Justice provides a basis to understand, interpret, and solve social problems in fair, equitable, and just ways. IC, IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.Cross-listed with SOC.
SJS 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SJS 215.  EMPOWER I: Educational and Economic Justice and Service-Learning.  (3)
EMPOWER explores how educational and economic injustices impact communities and considers strategies for social change. This course contains a Service-Learning component. IC.
SJS 216.  EMPOWER II: The Intersections of Race, Class, and Education.  (3)
Builds on the concepts learned in EMPOWER I to further explore issues of race and class and how they intersect in education. This course contains a Service-Learning component. Recommended prerequisite: SJS 215.
SJS 265.  Critical Inquiry: Penny Lecture Series.  (2)
Weekly lectures given by different Black World Studies Affiliates. Credit/No Credit.Cross-listed with BWS/SOC.
SJS 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SJS 303.  Life After Graduation: Careers in Sociology/Social Justice.  (3)
Explores a variety of career paths that use the skills acquired by sociology and social justice studies students while developing and honing those skills.Cross-listed with SOC.
SJS 323.  Social Justice and Change.  (3)
Study of how social justice is realized through social change, focusing on the individual and collective actions of people fighting for their vision of a just world and a just future.Prerequisites: SOC 151 or SOC 153 or SJS/SOC 165 or CRE 151 or DST/EDP/SOC 272.Cross-listed with SOC.
SJS 350.  Topics in Justice Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
This is a special topics course in the broad areas of social justice and human rights. The specific topic addressed will differ depending on instructor and/or academic term.Prerequisites: SOC 165/SJS 165, or permission of instructor.
SJS 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SJS 419/SJS 519.  Environment, Society & Justice.  (3)
Interdisciplinary studies of the underlying social aspects of environmental problems and issues. Topics include the unequal distribution of hazardous waste sites, the environmental impacts of war, vulnerability to disaster, the social construction of the environment, population growth, environmental movements, the political economy of the environment, and ecological modernization.Cross-listed with IES.
SJS 470.  Social/Political Activism.  (3) (MPC)
Provides students with the opportunity to explore how indigenous groups effect change in their communities.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153, or SOC/SJS 165, or CRE 151.Cross-listed with BWS/DST/SOC.
SJS 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SJS 487.  Globalization, Social Justice and Human Rights.  (3) (MPF)
This course explores the theories, issues, debates, and pedagogy associated with globalization, social justice, and human rights. The course provides students with a unique opportunity to explore these topics within the classroom and, via internet and other technologies, across classrooms located around the globe. The student, through collaborative projects with peers around the world, will reflect upon how globalization shapes and transforms local communities and national cultures. IC, IIIB. CAS-C.Prerequisites: GIC 101, SOC 151 or 152 or SJS/SOC 165.Cross-listed with GIC/SOC.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel