Sociology (SOC) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Sociology (SOC)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Sociology (SOC)
Sociology (SOC)
Prerequisite Notes: A majority of upper level classes require the successful completion of either SOC 151 or SOC 153 or where indicated SOC 165/SJS 165 (where indicated), unless otherwise stated.
400-level courses require upper-class or graduate standing and 12 semester hours of sociology or six hours of sociology and six hours from the following: anthropology, economics, geography, gerontology, political science, psychology or social justice studies. Six of these hours must be advanced credit. Note specific prerequisite for SOC 440.
SOC 127.  Environmental/Justice Films.  (1; maximum 4)
This course is designed to introduce Social Justice and Sustainability Scholars to a variety of environmental and social justice issues through cinema. The emphasis will be fictional feature films, not documentaries, but the feature films may be based on reality. Students will meet to watch films together and reflect on the messages they carry about environmental and social justice issues and how those messages are disseminated to the viewers. Students will explore the relationship between art and message.Cross-listed with FST 127 and IES 127.
SOC 151.  Social Relations.  (4) (MPF)
Introduction to and application of the principles, methods, and major theoretical orientations of sociology in providing a basic understanding of the social aspects of human life. SOC 151 serves as a prerequisite for upper level sociology classes and as an entry course for the SOC major, SOC minors and SOC thematic sequences. Credit for the sociology major is NOT given for both SOC 151 and SOC 153. IIC. CAS-C.
SOC 153.  Sociology in a Global Context.  (3) (MPF)
Designed to develop the sociological imagination - an imagination that allows students to place themselves in a larger, ever-changing global world. Serves as a prerequisite for upper level sociology courses and as an entry course for the Sociology major, Sociology minors and thematic sequences. Credit for the sociology major is NOT given for both SOC 151 and SOC 153. IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.
SOC 160.  Selected Topics in Sociological Analysis.  (2; maximum 4)
Examination of selected issues employing sociological principles and methods. Credit not granted more than once for the same topic.Prerequisite: SOC 151.
SOC 165.  Introduction to Social Justice Studies.  (3) (MPF)
The Introduction to Social Justice provides a basis to understand, interpret, and solve social problems in fair, equitable, and just ways. IC, IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.Cross-listed with SJS.
SOC 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SOC 201.  Social Problems.  (4) (MPT)
Introduction to causes, context, policy, and prevention of selected social problems with particular emphasis on problems of conflict and inequality and problems of human progress. Primarily recommended for sophomores.
SOC 202.  Social Deviance.  (3) (MPT)
Sociological focus on drug use, sexual deviation, and alternative lifestyles and/or other socially defined deviant behaviors.
SOC 203.  Sociology of Gender.  (3) (MPT)
Description and analysis of gender in human society with special attention to constraints placed on both males and females by current socialization practices, and to issues in equality from historic as well as contemporary perspectives. IC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with WGS.
SOC 208.  The Rise of Industrialism in East Asia.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to historic parameters, geographic variables, state policies, and sociocultural contexts of industrialism in East Asia (China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore). IIC, IIIB. CAS-C.Cross-listed with GEO/ITS.
SOC 221.  Sexualities.  (3)
Introduction to the study of human sexual behavior with particular attention paid to the issues of gender development; premarital, marital, and post-marital sexual patterns; birth control; sexual dysfunction; cross-cultural sexual patterns; and alternative sexual lifestyles.Cross-listed with FSW/WGS.
SOC 225.  Work and Occupational Justice.  (3)
Introduction to the study of work, with an emphasis on the occupational structure, professions and professional powers, the employment relationship, and the institutional context in which work is done.
SOC 257.  Population.  (3) (MPT)
Examines population theory, characteristics, dynamics and policies, focusing on global processes and global inequality.
SOC 258.  Self and Society.  (3)
Examines how social groups and institutions influence human behavior at the individual level. Introduces students to various theoretical and methodological issues germane to understanding how individuals construct social meanings of their everyday lives.
SOC 260A.  Internship: An Introduction to Applied Sociology and Human Services.  (1-4)
Offers a foundation for those considering careers in applied sociology, human services, or similar fields. In addition to internship, student attends minimum of five special-topics seminars and participates in a concluding internship seminar. Available primarily on Middletown campus and only on credit/no-credit basis. Sociology majors may not substitute this course for any SOC 440 course.Prerequisite: written permission of instructor.
SOC 262.  Research Methods.  (3) (MPT)
Acquaints students with rationale underlying application of scientific methods in social research. Practical experience in problems of research and design and data collection. CAS-QL.
SOC 265.  Penny Lecture Series.  (2)
Weekly lectures given by different Black World Studies Affiliates. Credit/No Credit.Cross-listed with BWS/SJS.
SOC 272.  Introduction to Disability Studies.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Explores the link between the social construction of disability and that of race, class, gender, ethnicity, and sexual orientation as they pertain to social justice in a multicultural and democratic society. Promotes critical analysis of dominant and nondominant perspectives on disability. IC, IIC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with EDP/DST.
SOC 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SOC 279.  African Americans in Sport.  (3) (MPF)
Socio-historical analysis of participation of African Americans in sport and society, and examination of the role sport has played in African Americans' integration into the larger society. Investigates the way the image of African Americans has been constructed and maintained through sporting practices. Sociological theories and concepts used to examine the impact of historical events, such as Reconstruction, black migration, and World Wars, on African American involvement in sport and other institutions. IC, IIC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with BWS/KNH.
SOC 303.  Life After Graduation: Careers in Sociology/Social Justice.  (3)
Explores a variety of career paths that use the skills acquired by sociology and social justice studies students while developing and honing those skills.Cross-listed with SJS.
SOC 305.  Introduction to the Sociology of Globalization.  (3)
Study of human societies in evolutionary and comparative perspective emphasizing sociocultural origins and consequences of social development. Special attention to contemporary issues in advanced industrial societies.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153 or ITS 201.
SOC 318.  Social Forces and Aging.  (3) (MPT)
Examines the social forces that shape the diverse experiences of aging for individuals and the social structures in which they live. Particular emphasis is given to sociological issues such as age stratification, the life course, demographic change and its effects, and societal aging as a force in social change. IC.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153 or SOC/SJS 165; or SOC/DST/EDP 272; or GTY 154.Cross-listed with GTY.
SOC 323.  Social Justice and Change.  (3)
Study of how social justice is realized through social change, focusing on the individual and collective actions of people fighting for their vision of a just world and a just future.Prerequisites: SOC 151 or SOC 153 or SJS/SOC 165 or CRE 151 or DST/EDP/SOC 272.Cross-listed with SJS.
SOC 337L.  Directed Research in European Studies.  (3)
Reading and research on selected social science topics. Emphasis on European language materials and data sources. Substantive focus chosen each semester by instructor.
SOC 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
SOC 348.  Race and Ethnic Relations.  (3) (MPT)
Description and analysis of emergence and trends of minority relations in the U.S. IC.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165; or CRE 151.Cross-listed with BWS.
SOC 350.  Topics in Justice Studies.  (3; maximum 6)
This is a special topics course in the broad areas of social justice and human rights. The specific topic addressed will differ depending on instructor and/or academic term.Prerequisite: SJS 165 or SOC 165 or permission of instructor.
SOC 352.  Criminology.  (3) (MPT)
Sociological analysis of theories, institutionalization, and social responses to crime and criminality.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 357.  Medical Sociology.  (3)
Sociological study of illness, patients, medical professionals, and problems inherent in the delivery of health care services.Prerequisites: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165; or GTY 154.Cross-listed with GTY.
SOC 358.  The Sociology of Mental Disorders.  (3)
Study of social factors in cause, perpetuation, and treatment of emotional problems.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 362.  Family Poverty.  (3)
Examines definitions, theories, causes and consequences of family poverty in the U.S. Identifies the extent and degree of U.S. poverty and demographic characteristics of those who are poor or likely to become poor. Consideration given to programs that reduce poverty and/or its negative effects, including those practiced in the past, those now practiced, and those that offer promise for improving the economic and social status of those who are poor. Costs and benefits of welfare and welfare reform and strategies for preventing poverty among future generations also discussed and evaluated. IC.Cross-listed with BWS/FSW.
SOC 363.  Sociology of Families.  (3)
Analysis of the impact of social change on family systems and patterns, structures, dynamics, and social policy, with emphasis on differences by social strata and culture. Cross-listed with FSW 363Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 372.  Social Stratification.  (3) (MPT)
Major theoretical approaches toward the study of social classes and social differentiation. Particular emphasis on the nature and consequences of stratification system within the United States. IC. CAS-C.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 375.  (Dis)Ability Allies: To be or not to be? Developing Identity and Pride from Practice.  (3)
Explores what it means to be ally to/in/with the disability community in America. The course emphasizes identity formation and how that formation can inform the construction of the ally identity. Through deconstructing learned values, knowledge, and images of disability that mitigate ally behavior, students discover the micro and macro structures that support ally behavior. By exploring how social control and social change have worked in other civil rights movements, students understand the necessity of identifying and including allies in the disability movement for civil rights. IC. CAS-C.Cross-listed with DST/EDP/WGS.
SOC 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SOC 409.  Systems of Justice.  (3) (MPT)
Examines the history and practice of punishment in society. Surveys methods of punishment employed after conviction of criminals and delinquents.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153, or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 410/SOC 510.  Topics in Criminology.  (3) (MPT)
Selected topics in the sociological study of crime and delinquency.Prerequisite: Permission of instructor.
SOC 412.  Sociology of Law.  (3)
Introduction to law as a form of dispute resolution and a mechanism of social control. Examines the law as both an independent variable and a dependent variable by studying the relationship between law and other social institutions using sociological theory and sociological research.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153 or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 413.  Juvenile Delinquency.  (3) (MPT)
Study of theories, definitions, and social construction of juvenile delinquency.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or 152; or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 417.  Economy and Society.  (3) (MPT)
Sociology of work relationships within the major social organizational and institutional settings complemented by the study of the more general structures and relations generated within the economy and society as viewed in a comparative and developmental perspective.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 421/SOC 521.  Critical Race and Post-Colonial Studies.  (3) (MPF)
Utilizes critical sociology (intersectionality, critical race, and post-colonial theory) to investigate how race and social structures interact over time both within the U.S. and globally. Specifically the course examines the theories, research and policy associated with intersectional identities of race, class, gender, place and context. Finally, it investigates the role of intersectionality in (re)producing systems of inequality, privilege, and how they can be transformed. IIIB, IC.Prerequisites: CRE 151, GIC 101, SJS 165 or SOC 151.Cross-listed with GIC.
SOC 435.  Death Studies.  (3) (MPT)
Examines social processes involved in the meaning, management, and experience of death and dying. Analyzes death as it relates to social structure, patterns of social interactions, and human experience.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; SOC/SJS 165; or GTY 154; or FSW 261.Cross-listed with FSW.
SOC 440.  Internship in Sociology or Social Justice Studies.  (1-16; maximum 16)
Field placement in an agency, program, or organization which provides students with valuable work experience and an opportunity to apply their sociological imagination and/or social justice perspectives. Credit/no-credit only. A maximum of 4 credits can count toward the major or minor.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153 or SJS/SOC 165 and permission of instructor.
SOC 440A.  Internship in Applied Sociology.  (1-16)
Field placement in an agency, program, or organization needing applied sociological research which provides students with valuable work experience and an opportunity to use sociological knowledge to answer research questions or problems as defined by those entities. Credit/no-credit only. A maximum of 4 credits can count toward the major or minor.Prerequisites: SOC 151 or SOC 153, SOC 262, and permission of instructor.
SOC 440C.  Internship in Criminology.  (1-16)
Field placement in an agency, program, or organization dealing with the administration of justice, including law enforcement, the judicial process, corrections, juvenile justice, and victim's services, which provides students with valuable work experience and an opportunity to apply sociological criminology. Credit/no-credit only. A maximum of 4 credits can count toward the major or minor.Prerequisites: SOC 352, SOC 409, and permission of instructor.
SOC 451.  Family Violence.  (3) (MPC)
Analysis of research and theory on family violence, including physical abuse of children, sexual abuse, neglect, premarital abuse, wife abuse, gay/lesbian battering, elder abuse, prevention, and intervention. Basic framework is ecological/feminist, emphasizing an examination of family dynamics as well as broader historical, social, and patriarchal contexts.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153, or SOC/SJS 165.Cross-listed with FSW/WGS.
SOC 454/SOC 554.  Formal Organization.  (3)
Sociological analysis of complex organizations. Topics include theories, types of organizations, basic characteristics of organizations, organizational change and conflict, interactions with environments, and research in organizations.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 459.  Sociology Capstone.  (3) (MPC)
Involves review of the discipline of sociology and focuses on key issues including review of the tools of the discipline and the role of sociology in the student's future role as individual, employee, and citizen.Prerequisite: must be sociology major with senior standing and have completed or currently are taking the methods and theory requirements.
SOC 462.  Applied Sociological Research.  (3) (MPC)
Provides basic skills needed to conduct applied sociological research. Emphasis on issues that need to be addressed in such research and processes used to answer questions.Prerequisite: SOC 262.
SOC 463.  Gender and Aging.  (3) (MPT)
Examination of how gender constructions shape the aging process, with particular focus on how various social, psychological, physical, and cultural factors affect men, women, and transgendered persons differently as they grow older. Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165.Cross-listed with WGS.
SOC 470.  Social/Political Activism.  (3) (MPC)
Provides students with the opportunity to explore how indigenous groups effect change in their communities.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153, or SOC/SJS 165, or CRE 151.Cross-listed with BWS/DST/SJS.
SOC 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SOC 480.  Independent Reading for Departmental Honors.  (1-6)
SOC 482.  Sociological Theory.  (4)
General survey of the history and theories of society and social action arising out of social research since the 19th century.Prerequisite: SOC 151 or SOC 153; or SOC/SJS 165.
SOC 487.  Globalization, Social Justice and Human Rights.  (3) (MPF)
This course explores the theories, issues, debates, and pedagogy associated with globalization, social justice, and human rights. The course provides students with a unique opportunity to explore these topics within the classroom and, via internet and other technologies, across classrooms located around the globe. The student, through collaborative projects with peers around the world, will reflect upon how globalization shapes and transforms local communities and national cultures. IC, IIIB. CAS-C.Prerequisite: GIC 101, SOC 151 or SOC 153, or SOC/SJS 165.Cross-listed with GIC/SJS.
SOC 490/SOC 590.  Current Issues in Sociology.  (1-3; maximum 6)
Selected topics of importance on contemporary sociology.
SOC 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel