Speech Pathology & Audiology (SPA) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Speech Pathology &​ Audiology (SPA)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Speech Pathology & Audiology (SPA)
Speech Pathology & Audiology (SPA)
Note: All graduate courses require graduate standing and approval of instructor.
SPA 101.  Beginning ASL I.  (4)
This course will introduce conversationally relevant signs, fingerspelling, grammatical sign principles and background information related to deaf culture with the objective of teaching students to sign and understand ASL with increasing ability.Cross-listed with DST.
SPA 102.  Beginning ASL II.  (4)
The Beginning II course is a continuation of the Beginning ASL I course. This course will continue to introduce conversationally relevant signs, grammatical principles, and background information related to the Deaf culture with the objective of teaching students to sign and understand ASL with an increasing ability at the ACTFL proficiency intermediate low-mid level (Swender, Conrad, & Vicars, 2012). Swender, E., Conrad, D. J., & Vicars, R. (2012). ACTFL proficiency guidelines 2012. ACTFL, INC. Retrieved from http://actflproficiencyguidelines2012.org.Prerequisite: DST/SPA 101.
SPA 127.  Introduction to Communication Disorders.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Overview of disorders of communication, special problems of speech, language and hearing impairments, and treatment. IIC. CAS-C.
SPA 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SPA 201.  Intermediate ASL I.  (3)
The Intermediate ASL I course is a continuation of the Beginning ASL II course. This course will continue to address conversationally relevant signs, grammatical principles, and background information related to the Deaf culture with the objective of teaching students to proficiently sign and understand ASL with an increasing ability dictated by the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages' proficiency intermediate mid-high level.Prerequisite: SPA/DST 102.Cross-listed with DST.
SPA 202.  Intermediate American Sign Language II.  (3)
Intermediate ASL II is the fourth course in the American Sign Language curriculum. Students will continue to develop ASL communication skills receptively and expressively through continued vocabulary and grammar instruction. Deaf culture concepts will be expanded upon with course instruction presented primarily in ASL. In addition, students will partake in service learning opportunities so the student can partake in mastery of ASL and to become assimilated with Deaf culture values.Prerequisite: DST/SPA 201 or equivalent.Cross-listed with DST.
SPA 210.  Topics in Speech Pathology and Audiology.  (3; maximum 6)
Explores special topics in the fields of speech-language pathology and audiology.Prerequisite: SPA 202.
SPA 222.  Anatomy and Physiology Speech Production.  (3)
Introduction to anatomical, physiological, and neurological characteristics of normal speech mechanisms; developmental embryology; and fundamental acoustics of speech.Co-requisite: BIO 161.
SPA 223.  Theories of Language Development.  (3) (MPF)
Survey of the integration of scientific and theoretical knowledge about the normal acquisition of language from birth to adulthood. Introduction to the linguistic aspects of cultural, political, and environmental impacts on acquisition of language, relationship between English and coexistent languages, gender-related differences in conversational interactions, and the complex interaction of culture and language development. IIC. CAS-C.
SPA 225.  Foundations of Neurology.  (3)
Nature and treatment of speech and language disorders with involved structural and neurological components.
SPA 233.  Perspectives of the Human Face.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Course describes basic concepts of growth and development of the human face and the resulting craniofacial anomalies (CFAs) that occur when this process is interrupted. The major causes of CFAs are explored, and the major genetic syndromes with CFAs are reviewed. Students learn how to identify CFAs and how to distinguish between normal racial and ethnic variation in facial appearance and anomalous facial appearance. Students also review the causes of CFAs and their impacts on affected individuals, and learn how to select strategies for helping persons with abnormal facial features to live normal lives. IIC.
SPA 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SPA 293.  Sophomore Seminar in Speech Pathology and Audiology.  (1)
Professional seminar for majors in speech pathology and audiology. Students learn observational techniques and observe at the Speech and Hearing Clinic.Prerequisite: Sophomore standing (pre-major status).
SPA 312.  Deaf Culture: Global, National and Local Issues.  (3) (MPF)
Provides a comprehensive orientation to the Deaf and hard-of-hearing communities in continents around the globe. Students will learn the basic vocabulary and grammar of American Sign Language. Consideration will also be given to sign systems in Europe and the U.S. The students will be introduced to the sociolinguistic aspects of educational, political and environmental impacts on Deaf culture, identity, and language. IC, IIC, IIIB.Cross-listed with DST.
SPA 316.  Introduction to Audiology.  (3)
Topics include: physics of sound principles and techniques of audiometric testing, types of hearing loss, and treatments for hearing impairment.Prerequisite: junior standing (major status).
SPA 326.  Aural Rehabilitation.  (3)
Discussion of skills and abilities associated with hearing loss, strategies used in hearing loss intervention including listening and speaking, sign language and hearing aid selection for children and adults.Prerequisites: junior standing; major status; SPA 316.
SPA 334.  Clinical Phonetics and Articulation Disorders.  (3)
Sound structure of the English language, beginning and advanced transcription using international phonetic alphabet with clinical applications.Prerequisite: junior standing; major status; SPA 223.
SPA 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
SPA 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SPA 393.  Junior Clinical Experience.  (1)
Professional seminar for majors in speech pathology and audiology. Focuses on counseling in speech pathology and audiology. Multicultural experiences in a variety of contexts. Credit/no-credit basis only.
SPA 402.  Counseling Strategies for Speech Pathologists and Audiologists.  (3)
Provides an understanding of counseling theory and practice as it relates to individuals with communication disorders. Consideration given to the psychological and psychosocial implications of communication disorders to individuals and their families.Prerequisite: senior standing; major status; SPA 127 or permission of instructor.
SPA 413.  Senior Seminar in Communication Disorders.  (3) (MPC)
Intensive study of current issues in communication disorders. Each topic builds on knowledge acquired in past courses. Emphasis on analysis of issues, ranging from ethical concerns to multicultural imperatives. Students work collaboratively in developing their topics culminating in oral presentations and written papers. Projects are showcased at a colloquium featuring a national authority. Written proceedings summarize student projects.Prerequisite: senior standing; major status; Thematic Sequence in speech pathology and audiology, or permission of instructor.
SPA 416/SPA 516.  Research Design.  (3)
Basic principles of research in communication disorders incorporating research design and critical evaluation of clinical research in speech pathology and audiology.Prerequisite: senior standing; major status; or permission of instructor.
SPA 426/SPA 526.  Language Disorders.  (3)
Etiology, diagnosis, and in-depth analysis of communication disorders in children.Prerequisite: SPA 223, 334.
SPA 427/SPA 527.  Alternative Communication Systems for the Severely Handicapped.  (3) (MPT)
Overview of manual, graphic, and electronic systems used by individuals with severe communication disabilities.Prerequisite: SPA 127 or SPA 233.
SPA 435/SPA 535.  Speech and Hearing Science.  (3)
History, current status, and future trends of the scientific aspects of speech production and reception.Prerequisite: SPA 334.
SPA 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SPA 493.  Senior Seminar in Speech Pathology and Audiology.  (2)
Professional seminar and introduction to clinical practice for speech pathology and audiology majors. Information about the intervention process and practical application through supervised clinical work in the Miami University Speech & Hearing Clinic.Prerequisite: SPA 293.
SPA 605.  Speech, Language, Pathology & Audiology in School Setting.  (3-15; maximum 15)
Externship for graduate students in speech/language pathology and audiology. Full-time experience with supervision of faculty and school speech/language pathologists or audiologists in selected school districts.
SPA 614.  Evidence Based Practice in Communication Sciences and Disorders.  (3)
This graduate level course integrates the fundamental concepts of evidence based practice (EBP) with research methodologies. The goal of this course is for students to directly apply EBP concepts to clinical practice in the area of speech-language pathology. Further, the final student product generated from this research course will fulfill part of the Graduate School requirement for a master of science degree.Prerequisite: SPA 662.
SPA 620.  Advanced Clinical Practice.  (1-8; maximum 16)
Stuttering (adults), cleft palate, aphasia, cerebral palsy, and voice, hearing, or language disorders. Principles and techniques of examination, appraisal, and treatment supplemented by supervised experiences in Miami's Speech and Hearing Clinic and satellite clinics in the region.
SPA 621.  Neurogenic Language Disorders.  (3)
Advanced study in causes, management, and related research of adult aphasia.Prerequisite: graduate standing and approval of instructor.
SPA 622.  Voice and Resonance Disorders.  (3)
Advanced study in causes, assessment, and treatment of voice and resonance disorders.
SPA 625.  Best Practices for the School-Based Speech-Language Pathologist.  (3)
This course provides graduate students with a thorough understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the school-based speech-language pathologist.
SPA 626.  Organization and Administration of Clinical Programs for Communication Disorders.  (1)
Organization and administration of clinical programs appropriate to specific employment settings.Prerequisite: graduate standing in speech pathology or permission of instructor.
SPA 627.  Pediatric Language and Autism Spectrum Disorders.  (3)
Current trends of research and remediation procedures for language disorders. Individual diversity expressed in language learning through an exploration of the differing effects of various handicaps and cultural diversity.Prerequisite: SPA 226.
SPA 629.  Organic Speech Disorders: Motor Speech Disorders.  (2)
Advanced study in causes, management, and related research of motor speech disorders.
SPA 631.  School Age Language and Literacy.  (3)
Assessment and treatment of communication delays and disorders in infants, toddlers, and preschool children.
SPA 633.  Phonological and Articulation Disorders.  (3)
Reviews assessment and intervention strategies relative to the effective clinical management of persons with disorders of phonology affecting communication and literacy. Its emphasis will be in the area of treatment with over two-thirds of the course content devoted to the clinical management process.
SPA 635.  Special Topics in Medical Speech-Language Pathology.  (2)
Advanced study in special topics related to patient populations served in a medical setting.Prerequisites: SPA 651, Graduate Standing and permission of the instructor.
SPA 641.  Advanced Studies in Fluency Therapy.  (2)
Advanced study in management of fluency disorders.
SPA 651.  Dysphagia across the Lifespan.  (3)
Studies in the causes, evaluation, treatment, and selected research in feeding and swallowing disorders.
SPA 653.  Normal Deglutition Across the Lifespan.  (1)
The primary purposes of this course are to provided the student with an understanding of the anatomy, physiology and neurologic substrates of the structures and function of the aeryodigestive tract as related to oropharyngeal and esophageal phases of swallowing across the lifespan.Prerequisite: SPA 672.
SPA 660.  Independent Project.  (1-6; maximum 8)
SPA 662.  Research in Speech Pathology and Audiology.  (3)
Advanced studies of research and statistical data collection in the area of communication disorders.
SPA 671.  Neurogenic Cognitive Disorders.  (3)
Advanced study in neuropathology, diagnosis, treatment, and research of adult neurogenic cognitive disorders.Prerequisite: SPA 672.
SPA 672.  Fundamental Neuroscience for Speech-Language Pathologists.  (1)
Neuroanatomy of normal speech and hearing mechanisms and current research implications for speech therapy. This course will focus on the Knowledge and Skills in speech-language pathology standards for graduate student education in the degree program.
SPA 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
SPA 700.  Research for Master's Thesis.  (1-12; maximum 12)
SPA 711.  Research In Speech Pathology.  (1-12)
Students pursuing the non-thesis option may register for these hours while working on a research project; however, these hours are typically taken during the second year of the program.
SPA 720.  Seminar in Speech Disorders.  (1-2; maximum 8)
Current professional problems of a selected topic explored through study of recent research, clinical literature, and individual student projects.Prerequisite: six hours in 600-level speech pathology courses.
SPA 750.  Professional Field Experience.  (1-10; maximum 20)
Intern experiences for the advanced graduate student.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel