Strategic Communication (STC) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Strategic Communication (STC)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Strategic Communication (STC)
Strategic Communication (STC)
Note: MAC 143 is a requirement for all majors in the Department of Media, Journalism and Film.
STC 135.  Principles of Public Speaking.  (3)
Develops fundamentals of analyzing, organizing, adapting, and delivering ideas effectively in public contexts. Special emphasis placed upon informative and persuasive discourse.
STC 136.  Introduction to Interpersonal Communication.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to major theories and empirical research regarding the role of interpersonal communication and related personal, contextual, and cultural variables in the development of various types of dyadic relationships. Does not count toward the strategic communication major. IIC. CAS-C.
STC 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
STC 205.  American Film as Communication.  (3)
Introduction to the study of communication via American motion pictures. Focuses on analysis of technical and narrative elements found in motion pictures. Screening of films provides backdrop for discussing visual impact of motion pictures as significant form of mass communication.Cross-listed with FST.
STC 231.  Small Group Communication.  (3)
Theoretical issues that affect communication between members of work teams, discussion groups, and decision-making bodies. Students study these theories and related research studies and work as members of student teams to analyze critically both the theoretical and practical implications of the theories and research studies.
STC 239.  Theories of Communication.  (3) (MPT)
Introduction to communication and rhetorical theories. Students completing this course should be able to demonstrate competence in understanding the various theories discussed and see how they fit in the field of communication.
STC 259.  Introduction to Strategic Communication and Public Relations.  (3)
Introduction to the use of communication to influence societal issues and the field of public relations. Focuses on the history and development of the discipline and analyzes the influence of strategic communication on society. Covers theory and research foundations as well as broad contexts of application such as social activists, corporate stakeholders, media, community, and political groups.
STC 262.  Empirical Research Methods.  (3)
Examination and application of concepts and contexts of contemporary communication research and methods of research that facilitate investigation of human communication processes. Emphasizes experience in data collection and using the computer as a research tool. CAS-Q.Prerequisite: ISA 205 or STA 261 or STA 301.
STC 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
STC 285.  Professional Communication for Data Analytics.  (3)
Focuses on data analysis reporting for data analytics majors. Students will develop rhetorical knowledge and skills needed to write and present data and data findings effectively for a variety of audiences, purposes, contexts, and media.Prerequisite: ENG 109 or ENG 111 (or AP and other placement credit).Cross-listed with ENG.
STC 339.  Introduction to Organizational Communication.  (3)
Focuses on how communication affects organizational systems and performance. Introduces theories and issues central to the study of organizational communication. Emphasis given to the interrelationship of task performance, human interaction, and the improvement of communication within organizations.
STC 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
STC 359.  Strategic Communication Planning.  (3)
Introduction to the study of public relations and its influence on society. Analysis of the communication functions, theories, and processes of public relations and the publics involved in societal, political, business, and nonprofit contexts. ADVW. CAS-W.Prerequisite: STC 259.
STC 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
STC 431.  Persuasion Theory and Research.  (3)
Examines the formation, change, and functions of attitudes and the link between attitudes and behavior. Emphasis placed on understanding relevant theory and research.
STC 436.  Intercultural Communication.  (3)
Examines similarities and differences among cultures and subcultures with regard to norms, values, and practices in verbal and nonverbal communication. Barriers, such as prejudice and ethnocentrism, to effective intercultural communication addressed. IC.
STC 437.  Advocacy in Contemporary America.  (3) (MPC)
Analyzes post-World War II public persuasion, including messages from a broad variety of media contexts.
STC 439.  Advanced Organizational Communication.  (3) (MPC)
Interpersonal, small group, and public communication are discussed within organizational context. The effects of personal and organizational values and behavior on communication and organizational activity are linked to the broader community. Course includes class discussion, team work, student presentations, and writing projects.Prerequisite: STC 339 or permission of instructor.
STC 450.  Topics in Communication.  (3; maximum 9)
Study or research of issues and problems associated with communication under the guidance of a faculty member of the department.Prerequisite: major status or permission of instructor.
STC 459.  Advanced Public Relations.  (3) (MPC)
This seminar course emphasizes public relations case study analysis. Students critically analyze issues drawn from social, political, business, and nonprofit cases. Student teams apply principles learned in this course and prior courses to work with clients using research and strategic analysis to create solutions to public relations challenges. Course format involves discussion, team work, and extensive written work.Prerequisite: STC 359, or permission of instructor.
STC 469.  Public Relations Practicum.  (1-2; maximum 8)
Practical experience in public relations work. Cannot count for credit toward major in communication.Prerequisite: PRSSA membership and permission of instructor.
STC 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
STC 478.  Inside New York City- Study Away.  (3)
A three-week experience takes students “inside” New York City through field trips, guest speakers, panel discussions and an opportunity to job shadow in your area of specialization. Students will meet with industry leaders from every corner of the public relations, marketing, and advertising world from large agencies to small nonprofits and everything in between. In addition, students will get the full experience of NYC as they visit media headquarters, museums, and Broadway. Two weeks of lectures, discussions, and on-site visits are followed by one week of job shadowing a media professional - all in New York City.Prerequisite: STC 259.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel