Theatre (THE) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Theatre (THE)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Theatre (THE)
Theatre (THE)
THE 101.  Introduction to Theatre: Drama and Analysis.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
Examination of drama and theatre production as modes of human expression. Students will explore myriad approaches to script analysis and theatre criticism within various historical and cultural contexts. IIA. CAS-B-LIT. Suggested co-requisite: THE 200.
THE 107.  The Theatre Major: an Introduction to Theatre Resources and Skills.  (1)
This course is an orientation to the resources, personnel, policies, production season, and student organizations in the theatre department as well as related resources across campus. Students will build a variety of skills necessary for success including time management, academic honesty and collaboration. Open to Theatre Majors only.
THE 110A.  Beginning Ballet.  (2)
Classical ballet technique. Work at the barre stressed.Cross-listed with KNH 110A.
THE 110G.  Beginning Modern Dance.  (2)
Technique stressed. Correct form and body placement along with flexibility and control covered.Cross-listed with KNH.
THE 111A.  Introduction to Ballroom Dancing-Men.  (2)
This is a foundational dance course that includes technical frames, patterns, musical rhythms and cultural contexts for competitive ballroom styles, e.g. American Smooth (waltz, and tango, Foxtrot), and American Rhythm (Cha cha, Swing and mambo). Students are required to attend 3 evening dances outside of the scheduled class time.
THE 111B.  Introduction to Ballroom Dancing-Women.  (2)
This is a foundational dance course that includes technical frames, patterns, musical rhythms and cultural contexts for competitive ballroom styles, e.g. American Smooth (waltz, and tango, Foxtrot), and American Rhythm (Cha cha, Swing and mambo). Students are required to attend 3 evening dances outside of the scheduled class time.
THE 123.  Acting for the Non-Major: Text and Performance.  (3) (MPF)
Introduction to the art of acting for the non-theatre major. Focuses on developing basic acting skills through improvisation and scene work; includes study of script analysis and acting theory. Credit cannot be applied to major degree in theatre. IIA, IIB.
THE 131.  Principles of Acting.  (3)
Introductory course examining performance as an essential component of theatre. Focuses on dynamics of building an effective ensemble. Introduces theories and principles of acting techniques including script analysis, characterization, and action. Open to theatre majors and minors only.
THE 142.  Theatre Organization and Communication.  (1)
This course is an introduction to theatre organizational structures with a particular emphasis on technical and production positions and their interface with performers. Beginning skills in organization, communication, and time management used in various theatre positions will be developed and evaluated.
THE 151.  Stage Makeup.  (1)
Principles and techniques of makeup for stage. Proper care and use of stage makeup products and related supplies projectsin relation to character analysis and the actor's own facial features. Preparation for possible production makeup design or makeup crew opportunity.
THE 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
THE 191.  Experiencing Theatre.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
This course introduces non-majors to all aspects of theatre arts through online lectures and assignments as well as weekly face-to-face class sessions. This course will help students appreciate the theatre--its role in our lives as well as the ways in which it is created. Credit cannot be applied to the theatre major or minor. IIA. CAS-B-LIT.
THE 200.  Production and Performance Practicum.  (1; maximum 8)
Open to all university students. Laboratory experience in performance, design, technical production, and management. Each student selects area of theatrical production to participate in for the semester. Involves a minimum of 40 hours per semester, arranged around student's schedule and demands within area of participation. Registration through consultation with theatre faculty member required.
THE 210.  The Theatrical Toolbox.  (1-2; maximum 3)
This course is designed to introduce students to a highly specialized skill/technique in theatre not offered in our permanent curriculum. A specific focus might include one of the following: stage combat, clowning, solo drama, puppetry, projection design or other. Course will be taught principally by visiting artists.
THE 226.  Acting Studio:Foundations.  (4)
Acting Studio: Foundations is the first half of a yearlong sequence designed for theatre majors desiring an intensive immersion in an acting studio. This course will build foundational skills in movement, voice and acting techniques.Prerequisite: THE 131 or permission of instructor (Theatre Majors only; Theatre Minors by permission of instructor).
THE 227.  Acting Studio: Integrating Text.  (4)
Acting Studio: Integrating Text is the second half of a yearlong sequence designed for theatre majors desiring an intensive immersion in an acting studio. This course will build on the skills explored in Acting Studio: Foundations. The focus of this course will be scene study, including the speech skills necessary for the effective delivery of text. Theatre Majors only; Theatre Minors by permission of instructor.Prerequisite: THE 226 or permission of instructor.
THE 238.  Playwriting Through Improvisation.  (3-4; maximum 4)
A class about the making of theatre from the actor's imagination. Introduces students to existing and immerging techniques of text creation through improvisation. We place tour work in context to the art of theatre and the societies they come from through the study and analysis of existing works.
THE 239.  Alexander Technique.  (1)
Introduction to the Alexander Technique. Basic anatomy, body-mapping and principles of the Technique (coordination of the self with efficiency and ease) are explored in group lessons and in application to creative activity. Course is offered for credit/no credit only. Open to theatre and music majors only.Cross-listed with MUS 239.
THE 251.  Visual Communication for the Theatre.  (3)
Fundamentals of the visual means of communication in theatre through the study of the elements and principles of design, establishment of compositional problems as they relate to theatre, and representation of design solutions through a variety of common media. Open to Theatre majors and minors, or by permission of instructor.
THE 253.  Costume Fundamentals.  (3)
This course offers a practical exploration of the techniques used to realize the costume design including dyeing, pattern drafting, texture, and fashion history.
THE 257.  Stagecraft and Theatre Technologies.  (3) (MPF, MPT)
An introduction to the technologies involved in the conception and creation of visual environments that help tell theatrical stories. Topics include scenic construction, lighting instrumentation and control, and digital and traditional exploration of graphic representation of theatrical environments. IIA, V.
THE 258.  Scene Painting Fundamentals.  (3)
The course combines theory and practice of scenic art through study of and work with varying types of paints, dyes, and texturing techniques used in scenic painting. Layout tools and equipment are used to set up projects using fundamental and advanced painting techniques. Faux finishes are explored as parts of the basic requisite techniques.
THE 261.  Intermediate Ballet.  (2)
Intermediate Ballet expands upon the foundations of Beginning Ballet, the understanding of the basic positions and steps. The focus will be on mastering the basic positions and steps while introducing more complicated exercises both at the barre and the center. Center floor work will include the development and practice of adagio and allegro combinations as well as turns and leaps (jetes). Students will be given opportunities of perfecting their technique and musicality in longer sequences, both at the barre and center floor. A class dance will be learned and the techniques covered in the class will be applied. Students will also be given the opportunity of choreographing an individual phrase for the class dance. Ballet history is also explored as a source for understanding where certain traditions originated. The course also includes some outside written work and performance attendance to better provide a background necessary to the appreciation of dance as a creative art form.Prerequisite: KNH 110A.
THE 262.  Intermediate Modern Dance.  (2)
Intermediate Modern Dance expands upon the fundamentals covered in Beginning Modern Dance and explores more deeply improving anatomical awareness, increasing strength and flexibility, expanding the modern dance vocabulary, and developing flow and dynamic range. The students will demonstrate, define, and perform demonstrating an understanding of these concepts. A class dance will be learned and students will also be responsible for choreographing a partner phrase for the class dance. The class will critique, discuss and analyze line, design, technique, choreography, and dynamic qualities through personal performance, class discussions, posted videos, and concert critiques. Along with discussing the blurring of lines between modern and contemporary dance, the course also includes some outside written work and performance attendance to better provide a background necessary to the appreciation of modern dance as a creative art form.Prerequisite: KNH 110G.
THE 271.  Dance Theatre Practicum.  (1; maximum 2)
The course is designed for the student to experience rehearsing a dance for performance, possibly performing a dance in concert, as well as practical experience in the non-performing elements of dance production, including dance lighting, stage management, sound, set, and public relations. Students might also learn new or repertory choreography created by dance faculty or guest artists and are frequently active participants in the choreographic process. Students are also expected to complete pre- and post-production assignments. The Practicum provides students the opportunity to earn course credit while fulfilling a production assignment on a dance production. The emphasis of the course is on professional decorum and a willingness to become a valuable member of the production team. Open to all university students.
THE 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
THE 291.  World Stages.  (3)
A survey of world stages that includes western theatre history and global performance practices. These courses introduce the student to theatre and performance as a social and cultural construction that is directly related to the place and time in which it occurs. Courses also explore the ramification and manifestation of internal and external influences on the theatre/performance of a given locale. Open to majors only.Prerequisite: THE 101.
THE 292.  World Stages.  (3)
A survey of world stages that includes western theatre history and global performance practices. These courses introduce the student to theatre and performance as a social and cultural construction that is directly related to the place and time in which it occurs. Courses also explore the ramification and manifestation of internal and external influences on the theatre/performance of a given locale. Open to majors only.Prerequisite: THE 291.
THE 301.  Professional Practice in Theatre.  (1; maximum 2)
This course is designed to prepare students to enter professional theatre. Students will meet throughout the semester with working theatre professionals/guest artists in a series of workshops, seminars, and intensives in order to learn more about how to interface with the profession following graduation.Prerequisite: Junior standing or permission of instructor.
THE 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
THE 342.  Stage Management.  (3)
This course is an investigation of principles and techniques of stage management in theatrical production. Students will study the accepted practices used in professional companies, including the requirements and regulations established by Actors Equity Association and variations in practice with regard to educational, community, and regional companies. The course requires participation in departmental stage management activities, which require some evenings and weekends.
THE 351.  Dance History.  (3)
The course is designed to introduce the student to the vast discipline of dance. Students will view and read about dance as an art form and as a theatrical vehicle and become more aware of the analysis of form and style and elements of critique in the various genres of dance, most specifically ballet and modern/contemporary dance. The course will trace the American dance scene and its impact on and reflection of American culture.
THE 352.  Scenic Design.  (3)
Theory and principles of scenic design for stage. Conceptualization and communication of design ideas through script analysis, sketches, renderings, models, floor plans, and elevations.Prerequisite: Sophomore standing or permission of instructor.
THE 353.  Costume Design.  (3)
Principles and theories of costume design for productions of theatre. Conceptualization and communication of design ideas through script analysis, sketches, fabric studies, and renderings.Prerequisite: Sophomore standing or permission of instructor.
THE 354.  Lighting Design.  (3)
Theories and principles of lighting design for theatrical productions. Conceptualization and communication of design ideas through script analysis, light studies, light plots, and related projects.
THE 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
THE 393.  Topics in Intercultural Perspectives and Global Theatre and Performance.  (3; maximum 6) (MPT)
May be offered with various focuses (including African, African American, Latin American, Asian American, feminist perspectives, as well as others) as it explores culture, race, gender and identity in performance. Emphasis on developing student appreciation of and critical response to drama and performance. This course is repeatable up to 6 credit hours. IC.Prerequisite: THE 101 or THE 191.
THE 394.  Topics in Dramatic Literature and Cultural Performance.  (3; maximum 6)
Topics in Dramatic Literature and Cultural Performance is a topic-driven course in theatre. Possible topics may include a given playwright such as August Wilson; a given style in theatre such as Realism or Postmodernism; or an overall specific maker of theatre such as an actor, director, or dramaturg. Students will be required to write short papers, make a public presentation, and develop a final paper or project. The course is repeatable up to 6 credit hours.Prerequisite: THE 101 or THE 191.
THE 395.  The Musical in American Culture.  (3) (MPT)
This course traces the development of the American Musical Theatre from 19th century popular entertainments to a unique institution in its own right. The changing shape of the musical will be explored in context of a growing and developing American culture, popular taste, and expression of personal and cultural identity.
THE 398.  London Theatre.  (3)
This course is an introduction to theatre in London. Students learn about London's rich theatrical history, attend performances of professional productions, and discuss them in their critical and cultural context. This course is offered as part of the Department of Theatre's study abroad program in London.
THE 400.  Advanced Production and Performance Practicum.  (2; maximum 4)
Practical experience in advanced design, engineering, technical production, and performance positions for major theatre productions. Independent study permit required.Prerequisite: senior standing and permission of instructor.
THE 416/THE 516.  Dramaturgy.  (3)
This course provides an introduction to dramaturgy and, as such, merges theory and practice, the intellectual and the practical, and the oral and written components of theatre production. This course is designed to develop research, analysis, and communication skills through creative research projects, script analysis workshops, and oral presentations.Prerequisite: THE 101 or permission of instructor.
THE 418/THE 518.  Playwriting.  (3)
Applied theory, technique, and practice of playwriting.Prerequisite: (THE 418/THE 518 only) THE 101 or permission of instructor.Cross-listed with ENG.
THE 421/THE 521.  Fundamentals of Directing.  (3)
Aesthetic principles, analysis, and exercises in composition, movement, gesture, sound, mood, rhythm, and leadership. Students should have completed four full semesters as a theatre major before matriculating in this course.Prerequisites: THE 101, THE 131, THE 251, and junior standing.
THE 422/THE 522.  Politics and Ethics of Theatre and Performance: Representation, Race, Gender, Class and Sexuality.  (3)
An advanced course that foregrounds political and ethical questions in relation to theatre and performance in the areas of race, class, gender and sexuality.Prerequisites: THE 291, THE 292 and Junior standing or permission of the instructor.Cross-listed with WGS.
THE 423/THE 523.  Topics in Theatre and Performance Studies.  (3)
Provides upper-level undergraduate and graduate students with opportunities to investigate and analyze theoretical, cultural and creative contexts of theatre and performance studies.
THE 424/THE 524.  Topics in Applied Theatre, Practice, and Pedagogy.  (3; maximum 6)
Topics in Applied Theatre, Practice, and Pedagogy will explore creative methods in theatre and performance and their application in non-traditional settings such as the classroom, community, or other nonartistic venues. Prerequisite for THE 424/THE 524: junior status or permission of instructor.
THE 432/THE 532.  Acting Shakespeare.  (3)
Advanced acting class focusing on the particular demands of acting Shakespeare's text. Exploration of heightened language, verse structure, scansion, and text analysis for performance.Prerequisites: THE 227.
THE 437/THE 537.  Auditions.  (3)
Preparation for entry into graduate schools, professional internships, or repertory companies for actors.Prerequisite: THE 227 or permission of instructor.
THE 439/THE 539.  Special Techniques for the Actor.  (3; maximum 6)
Practical application and exercises in advanced skill areas such as, Alexander, Feldenkrais, circus skills, mask training, hand-to-hand combat, weapons, comedy, period movement. Topic varies.
THE 441/THE 541.  Methods and Styles of Play Directing.  (3)
Scene study and presentations in selected genres and styles. Focus on development of directorial concept, unity, and effect.Prerequisite: THE 421/THE 521.
THE 450/THE 550.  Special Topics in Theatre Design and Technology.  (3; maximum 6)
Investigation of advanced topics or techniques in theatre design and technology. Might include areas such as design theory, specific design styles or approaches, rendering techniques, draping and patterning, costume crafts, digital technologies, welding, foam carving. Topic varies.
THE 455.  Tutorial in Advanced Problems.  (1-6; maximum 6)
Supervised execution in theatrical design problems and projects. May be repeated for credit within maximum. Independent study permit required.Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
THE 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
THE 480.  Independent Reading and Projects for Departmental Honors.  (3-6; maximum 6)
Departmental honors may be taken during the senior year. Departmental approval required.
THE 481/THE 581.  Integrating Performance, Theory and Practice.  (3; maximum 6) (MPC)
This capstone will build an original creative performance from source material based on a particular topic, theme or method. Students will create an artistic product and explore ways to design, produce, write and perform as a collaborative team. Students will then assess their work within the larger contexts of art-making, community engagement or performance. Creative products resulting from this class may include an exhibit or installation, fashion show, evening of scenes, collaboratively devised performance, autobiographical solo performance, site specific performance, documentary performance, production dramaturgy or other formats. Students will learn to think like an artist and to think across disciplines. They will conduct research to better understand contexts, to understand how to apply a method, and to understand how research provides creative inspiration.
THE 601.  Research and Methodology.  (3)
Introduction to research with emphasis on problem solving, techniques of historical, critical, and descriptive bibliography. The course includes an application of critical research methodologies in theatre scholarship. Emphasis on the process of constructing a research project for departmental graduate conference.Prerequisite: graduate standing.
THE 605.  Introduction to Theatre and Performance Theory.  (3)
Course provides student with introduction to current theoretical approaches to theatre and performance.
THE 660.  Independent Project.  (1-4; maximum 8)
THE 677.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
THE 700.  Research for Master's Thesis.  (1-8; maximum 12)
THE 703.  Graduate Colloquium in Theatre Studies.  (1)
Graduate Colloquium in Theatre Studies is a one credit hour course that students take each semester during their MA residency in the Department of Theatre. The course is an introduction to the profession, an open symposia devoted to departmental and university lectures, attendance at regional and national conferences, field studies in the art of theatre and related fields, and opportunities to share research with present and future colleagues.
THE 770.  Directed Study in Theatre.  (1-6; maximum 12)
Directed study in selected topics in theatre history and drama, theory and criticism of drama and performance.Prerequisite: graduate standing and permission of instructor.
THE 780.  Graduate Production Studio.  (1-6; maximum 24)
Directed performance and production in theatre and dramatic art. Credit/no-credit only.Prerequisite: graduate standing and permission of instructor.
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel