University Studies (UNV) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
University Studies (UNV)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·University Studies (UNV)
University Studies (UNV)
UNV 101.  I Am Miami.  (1)
Through reflection, self-assessment and group discussions, students gain a sense of belonging at Miami, plan how to make the most of their time at Miami, and establish a foundation for academic and co-curricular success.
UNV 171.  First-Year Research Experience I.  (1-3)
This course will introduce students to the research enterprise in general, and research activities and resources at Miami, in particular. Furthermore, it allows students to discover the research process within a particular content area by participating in a hands-on research experience. The course serves a number of purposes, such as: providing orientation and overview of relevant university resources, exposing students to examples of ongoing research at the university, covering content material on how to design and conduct research, locating and retrieving source material for research projects, designing an appropriate study to address a research question, and socializing students within a community of scholars. It is expected that students will complete UNV 172 in the subsequent semester, after which they will be adequately trained to partake in supervised yet independent research or creative activity with a faculty mentor, or other similar endeavors of their choosing.
UNV 172.  First-Year Research Experience II.  (1-3)
This course continues the student's training and experience in conducting research in the relevant content area. Specifically, whereas the focus in UNV 171 was on the design of a research project, this semester will focus on the implementation of the project, as well as the subsequent data analysis and presentation of results. After completing this course, students will have conducted a research process from beginning to fruition, and will thus be adequately trained to partake in supervised yet independent research or creative activity with a faculty mentor. The course serves a number of purposes, such as: practicing careful data collection, preparing data and conducting appropriate analyses, professional writing according to the conventions of the discipline, professionally presenting research results in a variety of formats, and socializing students within a community of scholars.Prerequisite: UNV 171.
UNV 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
UNV 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel