Western Program (WST) < Miami University
Skip to Content
AZ Index
Catalog Home
Miami University Home
Support Miami
myMiami
General Bulletin 2020-2021
Search Bulletin
Search
Print Options
Search Catalog
Search Bulletin
Search
In the Bulletin
General Information
Admission for Undergraduate Students
Liberal Education at Miami
Other Requirements
Academic Planning
Course Registration and Other Regulations
Grades
Fees and Expenses
Financial Aid, Awards and Scholarships
Graduate Awards and Other Financial Assistance for Graduate Students
Special Opportunities and Programs
The College of Arts and Science
College of Creative Arts
College of Education, Health and Society
College of Engineering and Computing
Farmer School of Business
College of Liberal Arts and Applied Science
The Graduate School
Admission for Graduate Students
Degree and Certificate Requirements
Graduate Fields of Study
Courses of Instruction
General Course Information
Western Program (WST)
Awards, Scholarships, and Prizes
Graduate Awards
University Officers, Deans, and Chairs
Office of the Registrar
301 S Campus Ave.Room 102Oxford, OH 45056513-529-8703registrar@miamioh.edu
Home·Courses of Instruction·Western Program (WST)
Western Program (WST)
WST 110.  Introduction to Contemporary Topics.  (1)
Draws on experiences of guest faculty and alumni speakers to model how engaged learning leads to informed action. Readings on the chosen focus emphasize an integrative perspective; students may repeat the course for credit when the topic changes.
WST 123.  Biology and Society.  (3)
Introduces students to the implications of modern biological knowledge on society, and the ways in which the concerns of society affect the questions addressed by biological research. This is a lecture and discussion course that encourages students to develop their own well-reasoned opinions about the nature of our species and our relationship with the natural world. Course will not count toward any BIO or MBI major. IC. CAS-C.
WST 177.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
WST 201.  Self and Place.  (3) (MPF)
Investigates various disciplinary models for how place and identity interact in American culture, and, specifically, how the local environment, including geographical location, ethnic traditions, and family traditions, impact our lives. Students draw upon their own life experiences to begin to formulate their intellectual interests. IIB. CAS-B.
WST 231.  Interdisciplinary Inquiry.  (3)
Introduction to the relevance of interdisciplinary approaches to learning in the arts, humanities, social sciences, and sciences. Explores the process of inquiry-based discovery through instructor-generated inquiries, student-generated inquiries, and discipline-specific methods and techniques. Particular theme or topic will differ each semester. CAS-B-Other or CAS-C Other. CAS-W.
WST 251.  Individualized Studies Seminar.  (1)
Provides students with the tools to chart their personal plan of study.
WST 277.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
WST 301.  Interdisciplinary Problems and Questions.  (3)
Considers a complex topic from multiple perspectives. Identifies the distinct vantage points offered by different fields of inquiry, including philosophical, aesthetic, scientific and historical discourse, with an emphasis on achieving an integrative understanding of the topic. Team-taught by two or more faculty members with different disciplinary and/or interdisciplinary expertise. CAS-B-Other or CAS-C Other.
WST 321.  Developing Interdisciplinary Projects: Exploring Ways of Knowing.  (3)
Investigates a complex topic with attention to methods and theoretical approaches from the sciences, social sciences, humanities, and the arts, emphasizing the tensions that emerge from the interplay of different sources of information. Students identify and critique distinctive approaches to integrate multiple perspectives on the course topic. CAS-B-Other or CAS-C Other.
WST 322.  Developing Interdisciplinary Projects: Art and Politics of Representation.  (3)
Investigates a complex topic with specific attention to developing competence in the analytical and rhetorical tools for interdisciplinary inquiry in the arts, humanities, sciences, and/or social sciences. Based on course topic, students identify and analyze representational practices (e.g., written texts, performances, new media, statistical surveys, scientific studies) to promote the development of creative strategies for representing and addressing complex problems and questions. CAS-B-Other or CAS-C Other.
WST 340.  Internship.  (0-20)
WST 341.  Interdisciplinary Synthesis and Action.  (3)
Integrates diverse methods of inquiry to assist the development of student outreach projects that synthesize learning about a complex topic. Working on their own or in teams, students develop action-based approaches with a strong aspect of public performance and/or engagement. EL. CAS-B-Other or CAS-C Other.
WST 377.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
WST 397.  American Environmental History.  (3)
Introduction to human-natural environment relationships in English North America and the United States, ca. 1600 to present. Chronological and regional approach with emphasis upon political economy and the American conservationist/environmentalist movement.Cross-listed with AMS 397 and HST 397.
WST 421.  Senior Project Proposal Workshop.  (3)
Supports student planning of senior project by focusing on proposal formulation, action plan, literature analysis, methodology, and project evaluation/assessment; culminates in public defense of full proposal with program faculty and students.
WST 444.  Senior Workshop and Project.  (3) (MPC)
Provides a forum in which students share with peers the process of writing, revising, researching, or otherwise executing the planned project. Work with direction of a faculty adviser. Students work individually or in teams to develop means of senior project delivery, e.g., by submission of research paper suitable for conference presentation or journal publication; theatrical or multimedia performance; gallery showing. Students present their research in a public form at the end of the spring semester.Prerequisite: WST 421.
WST 477.  Independent Studies.  (0-6)
			© 2020-2021 Miami University. All rights reserved.
Privacy Statement
Family Consumer Information
Accessibility Needs
Report a Problem With This Website
Annual Security and Fire Safety Report
Employment
Back to Top
		Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this pageThe PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Cancel